16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <Scribe> Scribe: [[Scribe]]
16:15:47 <Scribe> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <Scribe> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <Scribe> Chair: [[Chair]]
16:16:51 <Scribe> Present: [[FirstnameLastname]]
16:17:47 <Scribe> Regrets: [[FirstnameLastname]]
16:17:14 <Scribe> Date: [[DD MMM YYYY]]
16:17:28 <Scribe> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/[[YYYYMMDD]]T133000/
16:17:47 <Scribe> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/[[YYYYMMDD]]T133000/ 
16:17:37 <Scribe> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <Scribe> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-[[YYYY-MM-DD]]
16:17:47 <Scribe> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-[[YYYY-MM-DD]]
16:17:47 <Scribe> Topic: [[TOPIC]]
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/[[ISSUENO]] -> Issue [[ISSUENO]] [[ISSUETITLE]] (by [[ISSUECREATOR]])
16:17:47 <Scribe> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <Scribe> \ The next meeting will be on [[MMM-DD] [[TIME]]
16:17:47 <Scribe> \ Agenda for next meeting will be [[NEXTAGENDA]]
