00:00:00 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call 19 JAN 2022
00:00:00 <harsh> Date: 19 JAN 2022
00:00:00 <harsh> Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2022Jan/0005.html
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Present: beatriz, harsh, jan, julian, mark
00:00:00 <harsh> Regrets: paul
00:00:00 <harsh> Chair: harsh
00:00:00 <harsh> Scribe: harsh
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Topic: Jurisdictions - resolving proposed concepts
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> No comments or objections raised. Proposed concepts accepted.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Topic: Data categories in DPV
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> We have moved personal data categories to `dpv-pd` extension with the namespace/IRI as `https://w3.org/ns/dpv-pd to be redirected to `https://w3c.github.io/dpv/dpv-pd. This includes renaming `PersonalDataCategory` to `PersonalData`.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Some categories have been retained in DPV (main). These include: Sensitive, Special, Derived categories.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> New proposals include `InferredPersonalData` as subclass of `Derived`.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> In addition, to indicate something is '''not personal data''' the concept `NonPersonalData` is proposed along with the umbrella/parent concept `Data` to represent both personal and non-personal data.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> `PseudoAnonymousData` as a subclass of `PersonalData` and `AnonymousData` as a subclass of `NonPersonalData` are proposed.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Jan and Julian raised concerns about `NonPersonalData` being combined with other data to become `PersonalData`. A note is to be added to the concept and its usage to illustrate caution in such usage and to clarify that non-personal is a 'tag' or 'label' to declare something is not personal data e.g. after anonymisation.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> ---
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> The reasons for inclusion of `Data` as a concept include 1) as a semantic parent of `PersonalData` and `NonPersonalData`; and 2) to specify something is just ''data'' i.e. it is neither personal nor non-personal e.g. if it is unknown whether something is personal data.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> jan: Are or could the existing categories provided by DPV be used to ''identify if something is personal data''. For example by looking up whether a category is present in the list, if yes, its personal data.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: Yes, this is possible. Though the list is neither authoritative (a category in DPV is not always personal data e.g. organisation email) nor exhaustive (not all possible categories are represented).
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> jan: Is the ''identifiability'' associated with data also represented? Or how could this be represented?
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: We don't provide a way to currently specify how personal data is ''related to an identity'' whether implicitly or explicitly. This is complex to do because identity could be an identifier present in the data itself, present externally and associated with the data, or the data could be used to re-identify an individual either by itself or in combination with other data.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: The use and definition of '''PII''' as a term, whether under ISO or NIST is relevant here. As there is discussion on whether the ISO term ''PII'' is equivalent to ''Personal Data'' under GDPR. There are arguments that it is not.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: Until we have a clear authoritative answer and a good working definition, we refrain from representing PII separately as a concept.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> julian: So how would PII fit within DPV concepts? (paraphrased)
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: `PII` is either equivalent to `PersonalData`, in which case we don't model it, or it is a subset of `PersonalData`, in which case we add it as a subclass.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> ---
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> For relevance, the definitions we refer to are listed here
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> GDPR → A.4-1 ‘personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cult
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> ural or social identity of that natural person;
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> ISO → 29100:2011 2.9 personally identifiable information PII any information that (a) can be used to identify the PII principal to whom such information relates, or (b) is or might be directly or indirectly linked to a PII principal
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> NIST → Personally Identifiable Information; Any representation of information that permits the identity of an individual to whom the information applies to be reasonably inferred by either direct or indirect means.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Topic: Personal Data Handling in DPV
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Proposal for a property `hasPersonalDataHandling` to indicate applicability or inclusion of `PersonalDataHandling` with another concept.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> This is useful to ''nest'' instances of personal data handling e.g. to distinguish between different legal bases or recipients. Example includes a personal data handling instance associated with a policy that further contains additional personal data handling instances for different legal basis.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Additionally, the personal data handling property can also be used to link a personal data handling with concepts such as `DataSubject` or `Purpose` for non-conventional modelling of policies. For example, to indicate data subjects (employees) are associated with a specific personal data handling instance.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> julian: Does this mean the property `hasPersonalDataHandling` can be (effectively) used as an inverse property of `hasDataSubject` which links `PersonalDataHandling` to `DataSubject` ?
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: Yes, this is one of the possible uses of this.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Topic: Sensitive Data and Special Data
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> We have `SensitivePersonalData` which is a subclass of `PersonalData` and then `SpecialCategoryPersonalData` which is a subclass of `SensitivePersonalData`.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Definitions for these are as follows
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Sensitive → That which requires additional considerations, measures, or protection
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Special → That which is sensitive, prohibited from processing, and which requires additional (separate) legal basis for use.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> This distinction helps in identifying data that should be handled cautiously (e.g. location traces) from that which is special category as defined under e.g. GDPR.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> beatriz: in PROTECT we have the question whether DPV will be providing a list of ''sensitive personal data categories'' ?
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: If someone provides or we have an authoritative source for what is sensitive then yes we will provide them, similar to special categories from GDPR.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Topic: Data Source and Processing
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Proposal for indicating a `DataSource` is `PublicDataSource` or `NonPublicDataSource`.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> This is relevant in cases where public data sources have additional or different requirements and legal obligations.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> jan: Does public here mean accessible? If so, then how is that ''accessibility'' specified?
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> jan: We also need to know how it applies to e.g. government providing data versus someone's profile being set to be publicly viewable on the internet
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: The definition of ''public'' and ''accessible'' can vary a lot based on jurisdiction, domain, and mediums. So there is no proposal for these at the moment.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> jan: DPV should provide tools/concepts for specifying that data collected from public sources should be ensured to be valid (i.e. source is still providing that data publicly) and that it should be deleted after some amount of time.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: This is not for us (DPVCG) to define, but could be from laws or codes of conduct.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: To indicate duration of storage or processing, we have concepts to define these.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> julian: Why are the `DataSource` concepts in the ''Processing'' section?
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: For convenience. The spreadsheet and tabs roughly correspond to where that concept will be presented in the DPV documentation. As data sources are related to data collection, they are in the same section i.e. ''Processing''.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> jan: When data is reused e.g. from public sources, what should be the legal basis and how is it indicated?
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: There's the `hasLegalBasis` property. E.g. using a dataset under CC-by license, the license is technically the legal basis for collection/usage of that data, so this makes sense to use.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> ---
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> harsh: ISO/IEC 29184 defines four categories of data collection / sources
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> directly → from data subject e.g. web form
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> indirectly → from third party e.g. credit agency
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> observed by controller → from something the data subject does or has but does not directly provide e.g. browser fingerprinting ; this could also understood as 'extracting' i.e. the data is present
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> inferred by controller → by reusing existing data to produce something that is not present in that data e.g. identifying demographics from non-demographic information (mouse movements)
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Proposal is to add these to DPV as collection methods or as data sources. Contributions for these are welcome.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> We will meet again next week as per our regular weekly schedule.
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> WED JAN-26 13:00 WET / 14:00 CET
00:00:00 <harsh> 
00:00:00 <harsh> We will continue going through the spreadsheet and GitHub issues for resolution of proposed concepts.