<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 29 OCT 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>29 OCT 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251029T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Nominating DPVCG chair</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV v2.2.1</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">Fixes to DPV 2.2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Missing <code>dpv:Entity</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">deprecated warning</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">P7012 notice</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t08">Documentation revision</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t09">DPV main spec</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Search</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Overview/Github</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t12">EHDS concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t13">CRDM/EIT AI concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t15">Maintainer Role</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251029T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251029T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-29">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-29</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-22">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-22</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Nominating DPVCG chair</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389">Issue 389</a></strong> DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> see email from Art on mailing list <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0006.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Oct/<wbr>0006.html</a></p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Art mentioned interest in being a maintainer in the previous meeting. The appointment and considerations for maintainer are not as strict as a chair, and this is something that we can work out between everybody who is interested in helping maintain the DPV resources. </p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Art and myself will meet and discuss this after the meeting on the same call (people are welcome to attend)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> For the chair's role, the only nomination we have so far is from Beatriz. Next meeting we will aim to make a decision. Since Beatriz would not be present, she should circulate an email regarding her take on the tasks (which she wants to be responsible for and which she wants to support) so that we are aware of what she can accept. We will then make the decision next week on the position of the chair, and will circulate an email to confirm this in the meeting after that.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>DPVCG Charter</h3>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Attending the W3C CG council meetings which is like an official support group run by the W3C, where they want to see more CGs move to the WG phase i.e. have standards develop from CG work; We are at a good mature stage now and I'd like us to have a WG next year. Once of the things for that is we should have a written charter which tells others what the group is about, what is in scope, and what is outside. This charter is then taken into consideration when creating the WG.</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s04"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> accepted</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add charter for CG</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV v2.2.1</h3>
<h4 id=t04>Fixes to DPV 2.2</h4>
<p id=x030 class=summary> broken links in search page, missing info on deprecated concepts, potentially missing OWL files; tentative date OCT-31</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> accepted</p>
<h4 id=t05>Missing <code>dpv:Entity</code></h4>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/401">Issue 401</a></strong> [FIX]:  dpv:EntityControl domain (by noelmcloughlin)</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Don't remember about this issue as either we have missed adding that concept or that the property range is incorrect. Suggest adding in the concept. This was supposed to be about providing another entity with controls - which could be consent for data subject or general privacy settings, or for processor/another entity to do something with it.</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> The property is declared as a sub-property of <code>hasTechnicalOrganisationalMeasure</code>?</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Yes, the provision of controls is an organisational measure</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary> accepted</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add <code>dpv:EntityControl</code></p>
<h4 id=t06>deprecated warning</h4>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/396">Issue 396</a></strong> Add a red box warning for older DPV versions (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> accepted</p>
<h4 id=t07>P7012 notice</h4>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/404">Issue 404</a></strong> Add notice for P7012 (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> accepted</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Documentation revision</h3>
<h4 id=t09>DPV main spec</h4>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> Harsh initial simplification proposal at <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>dpv-simplification/<wbr>dpv.html</a></p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> accepted</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> A mapping of uses cases to extensions, e.g., for DPIAs check this and this spec, would also be very helpful, as mentioned by Delaram a couple of calls before</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s05"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> The idea was to help the user see which extensions are relevant for a given use-case; maybe something like a tutorial would also be nice</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> This is a good idea, I had found this framework for four kinds of documentation: technical specification which is what the DPV pages are, guides as in our guides that inform how to use the DPV for a specific topic, tutorials which are a literal step by step description of how to find and how to use the concepts.</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> What is the fourth form?</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> (post-meeting note) Explanations -- this would be like the blog posts that explain why some specific design or concept works or doesn't work </p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> already shared the new structure of the main spec with a few people and they find it helpful</p>
<p id=x056 class=summary> accepted</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> change the DPV main spec to the simple form</p>
<h4 id=t10>Search</h4>
<p id=x059 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Browser extension / Search index is very useful to found concepts and it's not known by a lot of people using DPV</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Its the same search page that we have in our repo and online. But this means that people are not finding it, so we should do something about it.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add search page to the DPV main spec</p>
<h4 id=t11>Overview/Github</h4>
<p id=x063 class=summary> Art has provided a fantastic overview for the DPV resources, which is meant to replace the default view we get on github i.e. <a href="https://w3c.github.io/dpv/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>dpv/</a> which is produced from the <code>README.md</code> in repo</p>
<p id=x064 class=summary> PR <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/pull/400">w3c/<wbr>dpv#400</a> with demo at <a href="https://bact.github.io/dpv/">https://<wbr>bact.github.io/<wbr>dpv/</a></p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> amazing, great work, thanks for doing this, +1</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 yes looks great should be integrated</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> would save this as a bookmark/landing page, +1</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s07"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> +1, also saved as a bookmark</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s05"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> if there's anything about this landing page, please comment at <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/pull/400">w3c/<wbr>dpv#400</a></p>
<p id=x071 class=summary> accepted</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Merge <a href="https://github.com/w3c/PR/issues/400">PR#400</a> index.html overview</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>EHDS concepts</h3>
<p id=x074 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> close to completion for concepts from PACSOI ; will share before I go on leave; Georg also shared a spreadsheet which I haven't looked at yet</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>CRDM/EIT AI concepts</h3>
<p id=x077 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x078 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s05"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> Harsh to review the EIT capabilities concepts</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Delaram to review the CRDM concepts</p>
<p id=x081 class=summary> Harsh and Delaram will review and discuss and then report back</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t14>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x083 class=summary> The next meeting will be on NOV-05 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>Maintainer Role</h3>
<p id=x085 class=summary> present: HarshPandit, ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, JulianFlake</p>
<p id=x086 class=summary> using tasks of the chair which also has maintainer tasks <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Oct/<wbr>0002.html</a></p>
<p id=x087 class=summary> agreed for Art to start with issue management and maintaininece of repo and also quality checks for concepts e.g. existing PR on missing concept</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add maintainers to the repo for recognition</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Add charter for CG</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Add <code>dpv:EntityControl</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">change the DPV main spec to the simple form</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Add search page to the DPV main spec</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Merge PR#400 index.html overview</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Add maintainers to the repo for recognition</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
