<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 01 MAY 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>01 MAY 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250501T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulioHernandez, MarkLizar</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>PaulRyan</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Incident Notifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">EHDS</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">Subjective Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">AI cards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Representing Use-Cases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250501T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250501T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-05-01">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-05-01</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t02>Incident Notifications</h4>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/282">Issue 282</a></strong> Incident and Data Breach Notifications (by Gogga)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Have added notification and reporting information for Cyber Resiliency Act (CRA)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> CRA isn't covered in DPV yet, so we should first add that to the legal extension and model basic stuff like entities, etc. and then add in incident notification and reporting; For discussion on these, suggest we break down the main issue into sub-issues to discuss each specific regulation/law</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create sub-issues for <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/282">#282</a> for each law</p>
<h4 id=t03>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Mapped entities based on the published version as the current DPV version is outdated and based on an earlier draft. There are 27 tabs and 250 new concepts to be considered, which I am currently reviewing.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We can copy over the completed proposals to the DPV spreadsheet for EHDS and discuss using that, starting with entities.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Copy EHDS entities proposed concepts to DPV spreadsheet</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Subjective Locations</h3>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209">Issue 209</a></strong> [Concept]: `AtX` subjective Location concepts  (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Continuing discussion from last week, we have the proposal that location concepts be modelled in other extensions where possible -- especially PD and TECH -- to avoid duplicate concepts and ambiguous interpretations e.g. whether it is personal data. The public/private categorisation already exists in DPV, so we will add additional concepts there to represent ownership and accessibility. For other locations, which might be needed in law e.g. AI Act Annex III to represent where the location is taking place, we have to consider whether they are locations or types of entities, and model accordingly. If there are indeed location concepts that are missing, we should identify and discuss them in the specific use-cases so as to have a better idea of the need for these concepts and to avoid creating arbitrary taxonomies.</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> There are location concepts in the prohibitions in AI Act i.e. the prohibitions are based on them.</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> For locations define in the LOC extension, how to express processes like export control which use a different notion of what is considered part of one jurisdiction or country e.g. &quot;Ukraine except Crimea and the occupied territories of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions&quot;</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The DPV LOC taxonomy is based on ISO concepts, so for specific country-based interpretations or recognition, these should be modelled within that country's legal extension. Perhaps it is a good idea to put some guidance on this in the LOC extension.</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Or a disclaimer about the interpretation and use of the LOC taxonomy for geo-political representations</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add a notice/disclaimer to LOC regarding concepts only covering ISO notion of jurisdictions</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>AI cards</h3>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/281">Issue 281</a></strong> Represent AI Cards with DPV (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> to decide whether AI cards are in scope of DPVCG or not</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> AI Cards also used in other places, what do you mean by &quot;AI Cards&quot; for this work?</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> AI documentation for use of AI systems that can provide an executive summary type of representation backed by machine-readable information</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Other places where such cards are used are for AI agents to specify tasks and delegations etc. And as Factsheets from vendors e.g. to specify what is the intended purpose, domain, risk assessment, for San Jose city</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> <a href="https://www.sanjoseca.gov/your-government/departments-offices/information-technology/digital-privacy/ai-reviews-algorithm-register">https://<wbr>www.sanjoseca.gov/<wbr>your-government/<wbr>departments-offices/<wbr>information-technology/<wbr>digital-privacy/<wbr>ai-reviews-algorithm-register</a></p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> This is based on IBM Factsheet 360 which also provides a summary view</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> We should also think about records for AI agents to state information similar to consent records. With the factsheets, the main task is to specify the intended purpose.</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Can this be an example to test our DPV concepts?</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Yes, e.g. how many CCTVs are in Dublin that do facial recognition</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> I think so far we don’t work so much with procurement. (I think we really focus on the rights protection, where rights is individual rights) But if DPV goal (future goal too) is something to do with procurement, it can be yes.</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Procurement is a very big process, e.g. see the eProcurement ontology used by the EU, and it involves additional information such as financial history and functioning of an organisation which are not currently in scope of the DPVCG. Therefore, it is unlikely that we will produce procurement-specific work. However, we do have an overlap or intersection e.g. procurement requires meeting criteria or having documentation -- which is something that the DPV concepts and specifications can help provide.</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> How does DPVCG decide whether something is in scope?</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Other CGs have formal charters and documents which specify their objectives. For us, we don't have that level of detail (due to manpower/volunteers) but our CG W3C page lists the broad objective we are focusing on. First test is whether the work is compatible with that. In the past, we had to expand that statement to accommodate both data and technology concepts. So on a conceptual level, the test is whether it is about data and technology. In this case, we know that the information in AI cards is in scope, so what we are currently discussing is whether creating a specification or guide document for stating how and what are AI Cards and how they can be created using DPV concepts is in scope of the group. This is based on consensus and whether someone is willing to do the work.</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> Is it a factor that this work isn't well-known or used elsewhere?</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Not necessarily. We have done original/novel work in the past e.g. Paul's work on ROPA records, the data breach and incident reporting work, or the rights exercise work. So as long as we are not disregarding any well-established work and we can show the benefits and progress of DPV by doing it, then it is a good exercise.</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> no objections to the work, so we default to acceptance as the work is in scope and aligned with the existing DPV specifications -- this has +1 from GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, ArthitSuriyawongkul; discussion to be continued next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Representing Use-Cases</h3>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284">Issue 284</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary> continued discussion</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The need for this concept comes from having to represent hypothetical scenarios and specific uses and associating them within documentation. The existing concept <code>dpv:Process</code> is ambiguous for this as it isn't clear whether it is referring to something that is planned, being done, or is a log of having been done. Further, there are phrases such as &quot;intended use&quot; in law which need to be specified as the intent and part of the documentation, while there are others such as recommended uses or prohibited uses or known problematic uses which are also needed to be associated. Putting this information inside the process is not ideal as it requires scanning and filtering to identify if there are specific processes that are e.g. problematic. Instead, this <code>UseCase</code> concept will provide a convenient way to say &quot;these are the problematic use-cases&quot;. See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Apr/0004.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Apr/<wbr>0004.html</a> for specific concepts and examples.</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> What about &quot;intended task&quot; in the AI Act?</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> There isn't that specific phrasing in the AI Act, but there is &quot;intended purpose&quot;, &quot;intended to be used&quot;, and &quot;tasks&quot; mentioned</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> My understanding is that the reason they don’t use the word “purpose”, in Annex XII, is because it is a general-purpose model and the model provider is not the one who decide which use cases or purposes the model will get applied for.  i.e. At the time of general-purpose model development, the developer don’t have an ability to know.</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> There &quot;general-purpose&quot; means there isn't one single purpose and it can take on any purpose, so it cannot be based on purpose as in specific use-cases.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> For the AI Act and other regulations, we extend the <code>UseCase</code> concept to match legal terminology i.e. as <code>ai-act:IntendedPurpose</code></p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> What information should go within the use-case / intended use?</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> That depends on the where the use-case is being applied or interpreted. E.g. in the AI Act, there would be specific requirements on what is meant by intended use, which means there should be specific concepts within the use-case to describe and meet these criteria.</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Purpose as a generalisation for use cases ?</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> No, purpose is still a specific granular concept. <code>dpv:Process</code> is the parent concept of <code>UseCase</code> as all use-cases are describing some process.</p>
<p id=x061 class=summary> discussion to be continued next week, currently we have +1 from GeorgKrog to adopt the concept, no objections </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x063 class=summary> The next meeting will be on MAY-08 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x064 class=summary> Agenda will be continuing on topics started under v2.2, and any other updates that come up.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Create sub-issues for #282 for each law</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Copy EHDS entities proposed concepts to DPV spreadsheet</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Add a notice/disclaimer to LOC regarding concepts only covering ISO notion of jurisdictions</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
