<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 18 FEB 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>18 FEB 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260218T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AjayJadhav, ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, BeyzaYaman, ChristianDraeger, DelaramGolpayegani, ElenaMolino, FabianLinde, GabrielaKurteva, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan, RuhiAnandFinn, SalDAgostino</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>EfstratiosKoulierakis, GeorgKrog, MarlinKisia</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Submit to LOV</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV v2.3 release schedule</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">Funding acknowledgements</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">w3id updates</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">EU EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Usability</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">version</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">changelog</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">release timeline</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t13">v2.4</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t14">India's DPDP</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t15">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t16">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260218T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20260218T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-18">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-02-18</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-11">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-02-11</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>Submit to LOV</h4>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> <a href="https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/vocabs/dpv">https://<wbr>lov.linkeddata.es/<wbr>dataset/<wbr>lov/<wbr>vocabs/<wbr>dpv</a></p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> what should be the contents? I have a CSV with IRI, link to turtle file, name, list of contributors</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> their email says it needs an IRI for contributors</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> let's send an email and confirm this with them</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Beatriz to check with LOV maintainers if we need IRIs for each contributor/author</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV v2.3 release schedule</h3>
<p id=x022 class=summary> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/9">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>9</a></p>
<h4 id=t04>Funding acknowledgements</h4>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> All contributors please check names, affiliations, and funding acknowledgements and report any changes needed ASAP today.</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/PR/issues/443">PR#443</a> for beatriz to review <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/pull/443">w3c/<wbr>dpv#443</a> </p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> is okay, will approve on github</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> For Julian, copied acknowledgements to EHDS </p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> This is okay</p>
<h4 id=t05>w3id updates</h4>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/425">Issue 425</a></strong> w3id updates needed for v2.3 (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> the w3id update was made and the PR was accepted; however as the latest version was set to 2.3 which currently doesn't exist on main, it resulted in 404s. A remedy PR was made and has been accepted and the issues should have been fixed -- please report any 404s found</p>
<h4 id=t06>EU EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH</h4>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/299">Issue 299</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for EHDS (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x035 class=summary> okay from Beatriz, Christian, Julian</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary> note: purpose compatibility moved to 2.4</p>
<h4 id=t07>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary> okay from Julian, Christian</p>
<h4 id=t08>Usability</h4>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/432">Issue 432</a></strong> [FIX]: Duplicated concept in Figure 1 (by renyuneyun)</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Fixed the incorrect diagram for <code>Context</code> incorrectly labelled as <code>ProcessingContext</code>, added all legal extensions and updated the diagram</p>
<h4 id=t09>Locations</h4>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341">Issue 341</a></strong> Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342">Issue 342</a></strong> Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Wonder if we should also have more clarity on what is a virtual location or logical location as opposed to something that has geophysical presence</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s04"><cite>SalDAgostino:</cite> Location is important, we want to make note of controller and processing location etc. so it is important to make note of what location is available; point is that locations have &quot;addresses&quot; that can be correlated e.g. IP or websites</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> (see comment on <a href="https://github.com/w3c/issue/issues/341">issue#341</a>) Will it be an issue if we don't decide in 2.3 to not separate the virtual and real locations? Or can we do this in a future release that locations are of different types e.g. location is a super class of virtual and physical locations?</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> yes that would be okay if we say things are locations without saying what kind of location they are and later add parent types</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add a note to TECH locations about virtual locations in the future</p>
<h4 id=t10>version</h4>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> <code>2.3-dev</code> folder now renamed to <code>2.3</code> and the release date is set to FEB-25 (may break existing links to dev version, but the redirect on the server should handle this correctly)</p>
<h4 id=t11>changelog</h4>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We have approx. 550 added concepts - most of them in EHDS and GDNG; and we have about 220 concepts removed due to changes in name etc. The only specific breaking change is in the DPV <code>ServiceProvision</code> purpose as we added <code>ServiceMaintainence</code> as the top broad concept with specific concepts for provision, quality assessment, etc. This is not a problem as the fix is to use the more specific concept, and as the continued use of this concept will not be incorrect per se, but will not accurately reflect the possibilities in terms of covered purposes. Solution is to explicitly add the new purposes.</p>
<h4 id=t12>release timeline</h4>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> propose we release the draft today and then we finalise the release and publish it next week if there are no major issues</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Publish draft release with 1 week period for comment</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>v2.4</h3>
<p id=x063 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> proposed work program <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/10">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>10</a> -- review and indicate interest to be involved in the work</p>
<h4 id=t14>India's DPDP</h4>
<p id=x065 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/438">Issue 438</a></strong> [NEW] DPDP extension to represent Indiaâ€™s Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 as `legal/in/dpdp` (by ajile-in)</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s06"><cite>AjayJadhav:</cite> Have made a proposal that this work should be modelled as a new extension (IN-DPDP) for the next release</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The work is in scope of the group, and we already have the IN extension. We also have support from Georg (Signatu) for the work. So I think this would be acceptable unless there are any issues or objections?</p>
<p id=x068 class=summary> no objections</p>
<p id=x069 class=summary> people working on this: AjayJadhav, GeorgKrog, ArthitSuriyawongkul</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>AOB</h3>
<p id=x071 class="phone s04"><cite>SalDAgostino:</cite> have some work that relates to DPV and IEEE 7012 and ISO 27560 ; the work on the Kantara TPI has relevance in terms of AI profiles, signals, and also being profile/jurisdiction independent. For example we have  mappings to the PCI/DSS standard which would support financial and reatil use cases. The TPI specification is here <a href="https://kantarainitiative.org/download/transparency-performance-indicators-recommendation/#">https://<wbr>kantarainitiative.org/<wbr>download/<wbr>transparency-performance-indicators-recommendation/#</a> The work I am referring to takes this and expands on it, and it something I am doing at IDmachines, I will follow up with some examples, also there is a paper being published by IEEE based on a presentation their international symposium on privacy expectations</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t16>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x073 class=summary> The next meeting will be on FEB-25 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Beatriz to check with LOV maintainers if we need IRIs for each contributor/author</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Add a note to TECH locations about virtual locations in the future</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Publish draft release with 1 week period for comment</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
