<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 10 JUL 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>10 JUL 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250710T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Weekly Meeting Poll</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">v2.2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">v2.3 topics</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">ODRL</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Guides</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Examples and Use-Cases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">AI training, GPAI uses, Agents</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t10">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250710T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250710T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-07-10">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-07-10</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Weekly Meeting Poll</h3>
<p id=x013 class=summary> see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Jul/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Jul/<wbr>0002.html</a> </p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> fill your preferences here: <a href="https://www.when2meet.com/?31247113-2tTGs">https://<wbr>www.when2meet.com/?31247113-2tTGs</a> </p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> ACTION: everyone to fill in preferences for weekly meeting poll</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>v2.2</h3>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> there is a delay in producing the release drafts, see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Jul/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Jul/<wbr>0005.html</a> </p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> discussed the following timeline for reviewing and release:</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> Harsh completes producing draft release and emails reviewers and mailing list on Monday JUL-14</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> First review discussion: JUL-17</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> Second review discussion: JUL-24</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> Final review discussion: JUL-31</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> IF no major issues and no further fixes needed, release on AUG-01. If further fixes needed, review discussion: AUG-07</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>v2.3 topics</h3>
<p id=x025 class=summary> topics of priority </p>
<h4 id=t04>ODRL</h4>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130">Issue 130</a></strong> Alignment with ODRL (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> we are aiming for a formally defined/specified alignment with ODRL, and for this we will have a joint CG-report that outlines the role and placement of DPV for use with ODRL alongside declaring DPV as a profile of ODRL (separate from the DPV specs)</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary> Beatriz is leading this work </p>
<h4 id=t05>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> there is work proposed by Georg and Beatriz (PACSOI project)</p>
<h4 id=t06>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> focus on expanding the scope and coverage of the AI Act extension with legal developments. The Code of Conduct was published today - <a href="https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/contents-code-gpai">https://<wbr>digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/<wbr>en/<wbr>policies/<wbr>contents-code-gpai</a> which includes a transparency model form which is a word document which contains fields related to &quot;acceptable use policy&quot; and &quot;intended use&quot; -- so we know the conversations we had in the past months were on the right track and valuable for this;</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> However, this work lacks a machine-readable version of the form, so that is something that can be our incentive and where DPV is useful</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> There is also work on Prohibited systems which can be incorporated into DPV. I am working on updating VAIR with these concepts which will then be proposed to the DPV.</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Related here is MLDCAT-AP which is not aligned with the AI Act (that's kind of a low hanging fruit to see what is the extent of this to cover/support GPAI code of conduct and where our work can fit in)</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> MLDCAT-AP doesn't address the AI Act (there is no mention of AI Act in the document)</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> It contains &quot;intended purpose&quot; which comes from the AI Act</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> They created this before the AI Act, so it only references models and other concepts for the portal</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> yes, though GPAI models and LLMs under AI Act are what this specification should have been describing, otherwise its a waste of effort if the specification does not incoporate or support auditability and just assumes compliance</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> There is space here to combine this with AICat and DPV and other work to show what is possible or a better way of doing things</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Let's discuss this offline, and then report back our proposed contributions. IF interested in this work, contact Delaram.</p>
<h4 id=t07>Guides</h4>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> There are a number of guides which have been proposed and which are yet to be written. I'll be writing them up, aiming to get them out as 1 per month. They also make for neat papers, so that's a good incentive. IF interested in joining this, contact me.</p>
<h4 id=t08>Examples and Use-Cases</h4>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Likewise, we have examples but no use-cases. So for the v2.3 development, I want to insist and set up a structure where we always have at least one use-case for each concept (at the broad level) so that we document what the concept is and why we decided to add it. Same for examples - we have them, but let's aim to add them for each concept (at a broad level).</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> This will be useful - for use-cases - as they will also help represent and check for compliance etc. </p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Yes, and then they can be helpful later to further explore aspects such as Tytti's PhD will require use-cases for the impact assessments. So we can have the shorter textual descriptions in DPV which gives an idea of what use-case are and what are the concepts/concerns involved.</p>
<h4 id=t09>AI training, GPAI uses, Agents</h4>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> These are topics that are all the hype at the moment, and we need a way to reference them. So this should be a focus for the AI extension.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>AOB</h3>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> My paper &quot;Simple now, Complex later: The Questionable Efficacy of Diluting GDPR Article 30(5)&quot; <a href="https://doi.org/10.31235/osf.io/t3d9w_v1">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.31235/<wbr>osf.io/<wbr>t3d9w_v1</a> accepted for APF</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> PhD Job for enhancing DPV: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Jul/0004.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Jul/<wbr>0004.html</a> please share in network</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x056 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JUL-17 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x057 class=summary> Agenda will be reviewing DPV v2.2 draft release, deciding on weekly meeting slot, and starting work on v2.3</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
