<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 28 JAN 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>28 JAN 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260128T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, ElenaMolino, GabrielaKurteva, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, MarlinKinsia, PaulRyan, RuhiFinnAnand, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Submit to LOV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">DPV v2.3 release schedule</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">W3C Meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">IEEE 7012 / MyTerms</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t09">404 reported in module links</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Change Management / Data Versioning</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Signals</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t12">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260128T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20260128T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-28">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-01-28</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-21">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-01-21</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>DPVCG Charter</h4>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> <strong>* DPVCG Charter approved and in effect from today</strong>*</p>
<h4 id=t03>Submit to LOV</h4>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> directly provide v2.3 as we are close to the release, test with maintainers that the spreadsheet is correct in the interim</p>
<h4 id=t04>DPV v2.3 release schedule</h4>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> propose that we have a draft published FEB-02, then I do direct meeting with reviewers till FEB-06 to identify issues, and then we release FEB-11.</p>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> pending technical issue with w3id for DPV concepts as they are now in modules, so the only solution I can find is to use javascript to redirect -- which is a bit slow but may work</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> volunteers to help with review </p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> am away / on holidays so won't be available</p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/299">Issue 299</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for EHDS (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> okay for EU-EHDS and DE-GDNG (TUE 09:00 CET). Other members include: Beatriz, Julian, Harsh, Gabriela, Georg</p>
<p id=x028 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/300">Issue 300</a></strong> Model Intended Purpose Compatibility statuses for AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294">Issue 294</a></strong> AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">Issue 197</a></strong> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> okay for AI Act &amp; AI (WED 16:00 WET). Other members include: Delaram, Harsh, Georg, Ruhi, Julian (new), Art (new)</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/420">Issue 420</a></strong> [FIX]: DPV logo broken in 404 page (by bact)</p>
<p id=x035 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/411">Issue 411</a></strong> Add contributor acknowledgements (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/405">Issue 405</a></strong> [FIX]: Font size in index and 404 pages is probably too small (by bact)</p>
<p id=x037 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> okay usability, 404, homepage (WED 14:30 WET)</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> for NIS2 - members are Georg, Harsh, Ruhi, Gabriela, Art (new)</p>
<p id=x040 class=summary> agreed on schedule and review process</p>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386">Issue 386</a></strong> Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298">Issue 298</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> review EU-GDPR updates with Stratis, Georg (and Ruhi (new))</p>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341">Issue 341</a></strong> Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342">Issue 342</a></strong> Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> review locations in other extensions -- PD and TECH with Julian</p>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287">Issue 287</a></strong> [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> review maintainance purpose with Beatriz </p>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> review ISO concepts and structure with Stratis</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to finalise drafts and circulate them by FEB-02</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to conduct review meetings with members ; report back FEB-04</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Finalise and aim to publish by FEB-11</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>DE-GDNG</h3>
<p id=x055 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> should I add the folder structure and define the namespace for this?</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> we can consider to add this as a draft to say we are working on this, and the draft contains the 25 concepts we have now; will discuss with Christian about this; next step is to say what term is used in what process of the research process</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> also technical challenges around translations as we have German concepts/labels; there was code for this which is commented out</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> ready draft document with concepts and HTML generated with German labels</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Julian to create a PR or a branch in the repo for DE-GDNG</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> issue with the hierarchy table not working (will create Issue with example on this)</p>
<p id=x062 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/416">Issue 416</a></strong> [NEW]: sector-health:DataUser + sector-health:DataHolder (by nuthub)</p>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/415">Issue 415</a></strong> [NEW]: Data Supplier / Data Origin (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Concepts DataHolder and DataUser in GDND need parent concepts in SECTOR-Health which don't exist, proposed in Issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/416">#416</a> ; these concepts are also present in EU-EHDS but they are not the same and that's why we need a parent concept; same for Secondary Use</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> working with Christian ; and also trying to generate the HTML</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>W3C Meeting</h3>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> had a meeting with Ian from W3C where they are working on better supporting the CGs. We shared DPVCG updates, explore potential for WG - we have another meeting with W3C in a month, will update on things</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Beatriz and Harsh to review WG guidance and options, then discuss with the group</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>IEEE 7012 / MyTerms</h3>
<p id=x070 class=summary> Standard is now open access <a href="https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2025.11360682">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.1109/<wbr>IEEESTD.2025.11360682</a></p>
<p id=x071 class=summary> MyTerms launch later today <a href="https://mytermswebinar.eventbrite.com/">https://<wbr>mytermswebinar.eventbrite.com/</a> 16:00 WET / 17:00 CET</p>
<p id=x072 class=summary> MyTerms website <a href="https://myterms.info/">https://<wbr>myterms.info/</a></p>
<p id=x073 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/413">Issue 413</a></strong> Ensure P7012 concepts extend core DPV concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x074 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/423">Issue 423</a></strong> Change `P7012` to `IEEE 7012` (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> References DPV (though an older version) as an example for implementing Machine Readable Privacy Terms (as in contracts). To be checked with Iain.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t09>404 reported in module links</h4>
<p id=x078 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/417">Issue 417</a></strong> Latest published version results in 404 (by TimvdLippe)</p>
<h4 id=t10>Change Management / Data Versioning</h4>
<p id=x080 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/418">Issue 418</a></strong> Change Management / Data Versioning (by apowers313)</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> new issue on github, what looks to be lead of data privacy from Amazon, asking about use of DPV for change or version management and some link to regulations but it isn't clear to me what it is about</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Looks like its about some data or document having some version before a regulation, or to keep track of changes for regulations</p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> thanks, we've asked for clarification on the issue</p>
<h4 id=t11>Signals</h4>
<p id=x085 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/410">Issue 410</a></strong> Represent Privacy Signals like GPC, ADPC, and others (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> This is a topic about how we can represent signals using DPVCG concepts, as this is something relevant to current developments e.g. GPC is on standardisation track at W3C; and GDPR Article 88b has proposed consent manager which would require representation of these. Will be working on these for the next release.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x088 class=summary> The next meeting will be on FEB-04 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Harsh to finalise drafts and circulate them by FEB-02</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Harsh to conduct review meetings with members ; report back FEB-04</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Finalise and aim to publish by FEB-11</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Julian to create a PR or a branch in the repo for DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Beatriz and Harsh to review WG guidance and options, then discuss with the group</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
