<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 03 APR 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>03 APR 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250403T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, julioHernandez, markLizar, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, georgKrog, harshPandit</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">GDPR CoC/Certifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">DPV v2.1.1 hotfixes</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">AI Act Risk Level</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Datasheets and ModelCards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/202500403T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>202500403T133000/</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-04-03">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-04-03</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>GDPR CoC/Certifications</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/278">Issue 278</a></strong> [NEW]: Misc concepts based on GDPR CoC and Certifications (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>markLizar:</cite> working on Code of conduct for transparency for data protection, would suggest haing sperate extension for each of CoC, working on transparency requirements within a code of conduct for the GDPR, Article 40  (transprency by design &amp; consent-by-default). Also, mentioned CNIL’s code of conduct approval process (<a href="https://www.cnil.fr/en/how-get-code-conduct-approve">https://<wbr>www.cnil.fr/<wbr>en/<wbr>how-get-code-conduct-approve</a>)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> We already have organisation/technical measures and purpose so I do not suggest adding new extensions.  Also mentioned European Youth Online Data Protection Code of Conduct (<a href="https://www.ibec.ie/technologyireland/influence/european-youth-online-data-protection-code-of-conduct">https://<wbr>www.ibec.ie/<wbr>technologyireland/<wbr>influence/<wbr>european-youth-online-data-protection-code-of-conduct</a>).</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>markLizar:</cite> we need to map the concepts from code of coduct to DPV concepts. Are corporate rules considered as code of conduct?</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> These all are compliance frameworks, so we need to determine what concepts are needed for conformity with each code of conduct that we consider?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> That might trigger mapping concepts from code of conduct to DPV concepts and further adding guidelines on how tto implement conformity with the code of conduct using DPV.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> The challenge is matching the concepts.  This might be something for Startis to explore and  provide more granular concepts.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>DPV v2.1.1 hotfixes</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/279">Issue 279</a></strong> [FIX]: DPV v2.1.1 Hotfixes (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s03"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> announced the comment from Harsh (The date on the documents won’t change, it just means we put an errata in the document and the github releases page version number changes (w3c published documents are updated in place) ; we don't fix breaking changes e.g. typos in IRIs -- these go into 2.2) .</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> The participants are okay with this.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>AI Act Risk Level</h3>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/231">Issue 231</a></strong> Represent Risk Level classifications for AI/Systems in AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> Associating RiskLevel with dpv:process or AISystem? Also should we add the risk levels associated with GenAI models under the AI Act, i.e. with systemic risk, without systemic risk?</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Datasheets and ModelCards</h3>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/94">Issue 94</a></strong> Represent Datasheets and Model Cards with DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> AI Cards (as suggested by Harsh) should be also included given that we already have the concepts and queries from my thesis. But we might need to look into AI Factsheets as well to cover all the AI lifecycle phases, as AI Cards is focused on the use of the system.</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>markLizar:</cite> DPV for tranpspareny:  PII principle for  transparency,  ISO 27091,  OECD’s transparency and explianbility for genAI. </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x033 class=summary> The next meeting will be on APR-10 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> Agenda will be continuing discussion on v2.1.1 hotfixes, topics started under v2.2, and any other updates that come up.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
