<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 26 NOV 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>26 NOV 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251126T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>GabrielaKurteva, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">ISO taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">NIS2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">CRDM/EIT AI Concepts</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t09">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251126T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251126T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-26">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-11-26</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-19">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-11-19</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPVCG Charter</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Working document: <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc</a></p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> will check the document in the next weeks</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> discussion concluded with following: using the next 1 week to invite comments, and then we will consolidate and discuss in the meeting on DEC-10. </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Updates</h3>
<h4 id=t03>ISO taxonomy</h4>
<p id=x020 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s03"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> interested to work on this topic +1</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s05"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s06"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> what is the scope/objective here?</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> to create a vocabulary representing core ISO terms so that we can state how DPV covers these terms</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> specific standards and terms (list mentioned)</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s03"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> instead of expressing whole ISO standard, it would also be useful to extract best practices identified in the standard and enrich existing DPV concepts e.g. TOMs from ISO can be put in DPV</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> e.g. encryption in some ISO standard goes in DPV TOMs</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> Exactly. E.g. clear desk policy (implied org measure)</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s06"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> do we need concepts to refer to the standards, i.e., connect terms with standards where they are mentioned?</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> VAIR has a list of standards that is not in DPV yet, also a list of standards from JTC1 /SC42 from the FORSEE project </p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> sounds good to reuse these</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> I had these notes from early in the discussion <a href="https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/standards-iso">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dev/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>standards-iso</a> and example of other metadata being used by Interoperable Europe <a href="https://interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/collection/ict-standards-procurement/solution/isoiec-19086-12016-information-technology-cloud-computing-service-level-agreement-sla-framework-part/distribution/isoiec-19086-12016-information-technology-cloud-computing-service-level-agreement-sla/rdf-export">https://<wbr>interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/<wbr>collection/<wbr>ict-standards-procurement/<wbr>solution/<wbr>isoiec-19086-12016-information-technology-cloud-computing-service-level-agreement-sla-framework-part/<wbr>distribution/<wbr>isoiec-19086-12016-information-technology-cloud-computing-service-level-agreement-sla/<wbr>rdf-export</a> </p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> are we just looking at ISO standards or the European  adaptations e.g. CENELEC</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> start with ISO ones first makes sense, as the others are still under development</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to organise meetings poll for dedicated work sessions</p>
<h4 id=t04>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> Beatriz and Harsh to discuss on 9th, then loop in Georg, and then loop in Julian</p>
<h4 id=t05>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> Delaram and others working on this to meet on either 15th <em> 16th </em> 17th</p>
<h4 id=t06>NIS2</h4>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> Harsh and Georg to work on this, starting with actors, and reporting obligations</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> EDPB consultaion where this is relevant e.g. for incident reporting www.edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/documents/public-consultations/2025/help-make-gdpr-compliance-easy-organisations_en</p>
<h4 id=t07>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x050 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s05"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> no updates; Next meeting on that is next Monday</p>
<h4 id=t08>CRDM/EIT AI Concepts</h4>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> almost done working out the concepts with Delaram, we just need to consolidate and then make a concrete proposal -- it should come in the next weeks</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>AOB</h3>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we have a big batch of concepts coming in December, it might be that we have a minor release for 2.3 with proposed changes and then finalise them in 2.4 (so we're okay to continue the research schedule)</p>
<p id=x058 class=summary> agreed</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> new concepts will be added with a note that they might change by 2.4</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x061 class=summary> The next meeting will be on NOV-26 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
<p id=x062 class=summary> Harsh, Beatriz, and Delaram are away; we will keep the meeting as open discussion (no agenda except AOB)</p>
<p id=x063 class=summary> timeline for last meeting wed before Christmas DEC-17, restart first Wed new year JAN-07 -- works for everyone</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Harsh to organise meetings poll for dedicated work sessions</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
