<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 06 AUG 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>06 AUG 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250806T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan, SokolAnna, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.2</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Beatriz's review</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Breaking changes in IRIs</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Submission to LOV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">political statement in LOC</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t06">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t07">policy on adoption of external work</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">standards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Meeting links</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t10">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250806T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250806T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-08-06">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-08-06</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Note change in meeting link</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.2</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/301">Issue 301</a></strong> dpv 2.2 draft review (by coolharsh55)</p>
<h4 id=t02>Beatriz's review</h4>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/351">Issue 351</a></strong> DPV Rule Fulfilment Status - naming and alignment with ODRL (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> breaking changes regarding how to name the Rules terms, this is for consistency with ODRL CG work that is ongoing (re. RuleFulfilmentStatus) – these are probably new concepts so not a breaking change</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> discussion around the phrasing i.e. the terms using Fulfilment vs Performed. ODRL CG prefers using Performed. Legal terminology may prefer fulfilment</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> have kept fulfilment for existing concepts except prohibition which uses not performed</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> &quot;performed&quot; is about whether an activity i.e. whether it is being performed (while being prohibited). Phrasing is confusing as I cannot perform a prohibition</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> we can have a note that these concepts may change to be aligned with ODRL CG</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we have two choices then 1) we keep existing terms with this note; or 2) we change the terms to ODRL CG ones with the note for future change</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> agree on trying to align with ODRL work, if there is a way to combine these phrasing with &quot;Activity&quot; then it will be more clear</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> then we might as well use ODRL terms like &quot;Action&quot; to keep things aligned / consistent</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Check with Georg regarding legal implication of Rules terminology</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> updates post-meeting discussion GeorgKrog: performance and fulfilment/violation are distinct. Performance can happen in stages where the state is in between things e.g. if parts of an obligation or prohibition must be performed at different times then performance can happen with incomplete fulfilment (or violation). So &quot;performed&quot; is ambigious here. </p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> updates post-meeting discussion HarshPandit: for DPV, we should focus on explicit clarity for legal interpretation. So we should not use performance for this reason, and for prohibition, we should stick with <code>ProhibitionViolated</code> and <code>ProhibitionNotViolated</code>. </p>
<h4 id=t03>Breaking changes in IRIs</h4>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/331">Issue 331</a></strong> v2.2 breaking changes (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> last time we discussed typos, but we also have EN-US and we use EN-GB; Art has been busy figuring out where all of these occur - see issue.</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> important to have consistency - so make the breaking changes</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> agree, otherwise there will be more changes in the future </p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> agree</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> then I propose to implement these fixes</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> I also propose we flag this as a major change due to the amount of changes and the change being in some old concepts</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> links will change so yes major</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s04"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> we should check with Georg on this as he is using it</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> they use these as identifiers AFAIK, so we should give a heads-up maybe via a month period before we implement these changes</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> then let's publish 2.2 as beta, put in master branch, but leave the LATEST_VERSION w3id iri to 2.1</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> agree</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> agree</p>
<p id=x042 class=summary> discussed above — agreed</p>
<h4 id=t04>Submission to LOV</h4>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x045 class=summary> will be done after final release in September</p>
<h4 id=t05>political statement in LOC</h4>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/328">Issue 328</a></strong> Add statement on political implications of LOC modelling (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> no issues identified, agree to continue with this note</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t07>policy on adoption of external work</h4>
<p id=x051 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> If there is a specific work that is not a standard (e.g. we have adopted ISO 27560 and 3166) or a law (e.g. EU GDPR), then what is our policy on adopting it? This work could be by an individual/group, or it could be by a community.</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Considerations: <br>
<span id=x065>… 1) Is it open? (i.e. the work being submitted is not proprietary, copyrighted, as this falls afoul of the W3C policies on contributions)</span><br>
<span id=x066>… 2) Why is it being put here / proposed here? Why not elsewhere?</span><br>
<span id=x067>… 3) Does it fit the scope of the DPVCG?</span><br>
<span id=x068>… 4) How does it relate to existing DPVCG work? E.g. is it extending any of these, and thus merits from being part of the DPVCG?</span><br>
<span id=x069>… 5) What is the effort required to integrate it? Maintain it? Is this support reciprocally provided by the contributors? Are they members of the DPVCG?</span><br>
<span id=x070>… Examples based on past adoption of external work</span><br>
<span id=x071>… 1) GConsent for consent modelling in DPV</span><br>
<span id=x072>… 2) ISO 27560 draft work for consent modelling in DPV</span><br>
<span id=x073>… 3) DPCat for enhancing DPV, and considering developing a guide based on DPCat for ROPA</span><br>
<span id=x074>… 4) AI Cards proposed to be adopted in DPV (represented)</span><br>
<span id=x075>… 5) Model Cards and Data Sheets proposed to be adopted (represented)</span><br>
<span id=x076>… 6) IEEE P7012 as an extension to support its implementation</span></p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Will we take it differently if the community group is working towards the standardisation of some of their work? For example, the SPDX community (under Linux Foundation) that I work with is not a standard body but their work are going towards ISO/IEC 5962 or CycloneDX (under OWASP) that works toward ECMA  <a href="https://tc54.org/cyclonedx/">https://<wbr>tc54.org/<wbr>cyclonedx/</a> --- but for these communities, not all of their work are go to the formal standardisation process</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> in this case they are a level below standards orgs, but they are widely accepted as best practices / commonly used so we treat them as such</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s06"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> they are not widely accepted as such in the legal frameworks, but they have a level of acceptability by the data protection authorities; For these and codes of conduct you also need to see who is abiding/adopting them. But I don't consider them as standards for the data protection (privacy?) vocabulary</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s07"><cite>SokolAnna:</cite> IBM Risk Atlas Nexus work which has been suggested to be submitted to DPV -- documentation for benchmark data <a href="https://ibm.github.io/risk-atlas-nexus/ontology/BenchmarkMetadataCard/">https://<wbr>ibm.github.io/<wbr>risk-atlas-nexus/<wbr>ontology/<wbr>BenchmarkMetadataCard/</a> and <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12974">https://<wbr>arxiv.org/<wbr>abs/<wbr>2410.12974</a> </p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add this to the wiki page for contributions</p>
<h4 id=t08>standards</h4>
<p id=x083 class="phone s06"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> will share standards that can offer subclasses or profiles for controllers for example (shared as: <a href="https://www.edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/accountability-tools/certification-mechanisms-seals-and-marks_en">https://<wbr>www.edpb.europa.eu/<wbr>our-work-tools/<wbr>accountability-tools/<wbr>certification-mechanisms-seals-and-marks_en</a> and <a href="https://www.edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/accountability-tools/register-codes-conduct-amendments-and-extensions-art-4011_en)">https://<wbr>www.edpb.europa.eu/<wbr>our-work-tools/<wbr>accountability-tools/<wbr>register-codes-conduct-amendments-and-extensions-art-4011_en)</a> </p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s06"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> codes of conducts are legal measures; some of them are not in English; they are candidates for creating extensions/profiles; there are also certifications. These standards are &quot;checklists&quot; for someone to receive data protection certification for compliance with the law e.g. for TOMs. These may not be for specific sector (i.e. sector-agnostic), but they are important as they can give clarity/emphasis to the DPV's concepts/vocabulary</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s03"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> So the approach to utilise here is 1) identify the vocabulary from these documents and whether we have those concepts in DPV; 2) express the standard/certification as a DPV extension or guide and way to check/document these</p>
<h4 id=t09>Meeting links</h4>
<p id=x087 class=summary> MS Teams is okay</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> suggested BBB room hosted by Uni. Koblenz</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to follow up to check on use of BBB</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x091 class=summary> The next meeting will be on AUG-13 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST (new time slot) </p>
<p id=x092 class=summary> Agenda will be finalising DPV v2.2 beta release, and starting work on v2.3 -- with a preference to identify topics for discussion where materials/arguments exist and so that we can revist what needs to be done for them. </p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Check with Georg regarding legal implication of Rules terminology</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Add this to the wiki page for contributions</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Harsh to follow up to check on use of BBB</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
