<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 20 AUG 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>20 AUG 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250820T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, JessMoore, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog, PaulRyan</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.2</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">RISK: Lose vs Loss</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Beta Release</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">Undiscussed agenda items</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250820T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250820T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-08-20">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-08-20</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Note change in meeting link</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary> intro: Jess working on engineering on Solid for personal data stores, focusing on consent management</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.2</h3>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/301">Issue 301</a></strong> dpv 2.2 draft review (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> milestone <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>7</a> -- new issues</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> working on changelog</p>
<h4 id=t02>RISK: Lose vs Loss</h4>
<p id=x019 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/368">Issue 368</a></strong> [FIX]: Typo on Reputational Risks concepts codes starting with Lose (by csarven)</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> current: LoseCredibility, new: CredibilityLoss (breaking change)</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> (what's the change) -- Lose is a verb, Loss is a noun. What is the common practice? What do we use?</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> apparently we use nouns</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Option 1 is better (LossCredibility) as this saydpv 2.2 draft reviews there is Loss and then what it is about. It sounds werid in terms of phrasing. LossOfCredibility is not among the options.</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> this concept is a consequence or an impact, so it would be a Loss of Credibility</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We can have LossCredibility as the term and Loss of Credibility in the label</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> so we follow our best practice for consistency between labels and terms (use of &quot;of&quot; here), and are we using the verb form that implies the event or the noun. </p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we should put this on the wiki (my grammar is not good enough) <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/wiki/Contribution-Guide">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Contribution-Guide</a> (please help) </p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> When we have a rule that we skip &quot;of&quot;, &quot;in&quot;, &quot;at&quot; etc. in the term while adding that in the label; then its not weird to read the label. But its still weird for people who see the terms for the first time.</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> or if we have the option that we can avoid these in the first place (e.g. by going with CredibilityLoss) then we go with that as a preference </p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we also seem to be have preferred prefix forms over suffix forms (so CredibilityLoss over LossCredibility)</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Another angle is that if we have different forms of e.g. reputation gain then the main concept is reputation and not loss anymore. In RISK, its most likely that we traverse the hierarchy starting with Loss. So depends on the context on how you narrow the terms to their meaning and group them together. Currently, they are grouped together based on loss.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> new rule that if we have a core concept that we want to group the concepts together around, we follow that -- here it is Loss and then suffixes for this so people can follow the rules</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s04"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> Its more likely that we also have e.g. Credibility damage. So if we forget about the tree, then Credibility as the focus makes sense.</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> do we have a broader term to state something that affects Reputation</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> here we refer to Risk as in it is about or affects Reputation</p>
<h4 id=t03>Beta Release</h4>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> publish as beta release, time period for final release? 1 month?</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary> agreed - yes (as usual practice)</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> evaluation tasks are complete <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/354">w3c/<wbr>dpv#354</a> </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Undiscussed agenda items</h3>
<p id=x042 class=summary> i.e. items on the agenda but not discussed</p>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">Issue 197</a></strong> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> - model agents and legal agents</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294">Issue 294</a></strong> AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary> - AI model development phases</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> - Overlapping Personal Data concepts across extensions</p>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341">Issue 341</a></strong> Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> -- Locations in PD</p>
<p id=x050 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342">Issue 342</a></strong> Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary> -- Personal Data storage in TECH</p>
<p id=x052 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/12">Issue 12</a></strong> Use-Cases and Examples showing how vocab can be used (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x053 class=summary> - Use-Cases &amp; Examples structure - mandatory to be documented for new concepts</p>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/137">Issue 137</a></strong> Move code for document/minute generation to another branch (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x055 class=summary> - repo Changes: changes to repo (moving code generator to dev branch) -- this was mentioned and will be implemented during v2.2 final release</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x057 class=summary> The next meeting will be on AUG-27 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST</p>
<p id=x058 class=summary> Agenda will be finalising DPV v2.2 beta release, and starting work on v2.3 -- with a preference to identify topics for discussion where materials/arguments exist and so that we can revist what needs to be done for them. </p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
