<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 29 MAY 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>29 MAY 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250529T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulioHernandez, MarkLizar, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Representing Use-Cases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Operating Factors / Environment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Secondary Use</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250529T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250529T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-05-29">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-05-29</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>AOB</h3>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> identified concepts from EHDS and AI Act for DPV, with EHDS concepts in spreadsheet (shared) and AI Act concepts to be added to spreadsheet</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to review EHDS concepts, Stratis to also review</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> For the AI Act, we have existing concepts from Delaram's work on AIRO and VAIR which have been integrated into the AI and AI Act DPV extensions. There is more work from the TAIR project <a href="https://tair.adaptcentre.ie/">https://<wbr>tair.adaptcentre.ie/</a> which would be helpful to avoid duplication and to use resources developed by DPVCG members.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Julio and Delaram to share work done in TAIR with Georg and Harsh, and then consolidate with Georg's proposal for AI Act so we don't repeat work</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Sebastian Hellensleben shared work in CEN/CENELEC on standards for AI Act <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/posts/sebastianhallensleben_jtc21-status-dashboard-activity-7331425771237826560--xX8">https://<wbr>www.linkedin.com/<wbr>posts/<wbr>sebastianhallensleben_jtc21-status-dashboard-activity-7331425771237826560--xX8</a> â€“ would be interesting for the group to map these</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> (continued) <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/posts/activity-7332406233150164993-NfOw">https://<wbr>www.linkedin.com/<wbr>posts/<wbr>activity-7332406233150164993-NfOw</a> link to standards in detail â€“ see vocabulary</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> standards â€“ 22989 same (EN), look at concepts and whether they are in scope, how to align with DPV, etc. lifecycle ones should be of interest to look at</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> are we modelling all of these?</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we have some of these, but others we need to think of how to model as they sometimes have multiple uses and definitions</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s03"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> to what degree are we looking for conformity with the AI Act? e.g. the word intended for intended purpose in Art.6, whereas we also have &quot;intended to be used as safety component&quot;</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> as much as possible as we have the AI Act where such terms can be defined, so if something is defined in the AI Act then we keep it as phrased in the act as much as we can</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Representing Use-Cases</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284">Issue 284</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> continued discussion</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> discussing <a href="https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/use-cases-01">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dev/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>use-cases-01</a> </p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we have dpv:UseCase and dpv:hasUseCase (we have agreement on these in principle) and we are now discussing hierarchy of potential categories of use-cases with <code>dpv:UseCase</code> as parent. Question: what categories of use-cases should we additionally define?</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary> below is outcome of discussion and voting using document</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> deontic / normative categorisations -- acceptable, permitted, recommended, deterred, and prohibited have 3 votes</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> Acceptable ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Permitted (MAY) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Recommended (SHOULD) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Required (MUST) ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Tolerated (MAY NOT) ğŸ‘ one vote ğŸ‘ no votes; Unacceptable ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; Deterred (SHOULD NOT) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Prohibited (MUST NOT) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> teleological -- intended and unintended have 3 votes</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> Intended (deontically Acceptable) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Unintended ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes </p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> Question: how to model Intended Purpose in AI Act with the above? -- extending a core concept in DPV is preferred with 3 votes</p>
<p id=x035 class=summary> by extending dpv:UseCase ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; by extending dpv:IntendedUseCase ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  </p>
<p id=x036 class=summary> Next week discuss these most voted concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Operating Factors / Environment</h3>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285">Issue 285</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Why are we modelling these? Laws, like GDPR, EHDS, and Cybersecurity Act require description of how the technology functions. However, these are yet to be explained clearly in terms of guidance and case law. Therefore, we are trying to model things in preparation for eventual clarity. </p>
<p id=x040 class=summary> Discussion on scope of these concepts: Let's discuss this, but keep these as proposed  ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Let's add these now, revise later  ğŸ‘ no votes ğŸ‘ no votes</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> Question: Do we provide tech:OperatingEnvironment? ğŸ‘ 4 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; defined as the environment (physical and virtual) within which the technology operates or will operate. This includes possibly everything that could be relevant, including location, data, people, machinery (other tech), etc. </p>
<p id=x042 class=summary> Do we model more specific environments like physical, virtual, how technology is set up, how it is placed in relation to surroundings? ğŸ‘ no votes ğŸ‘ 3 votes  </p>
<p id=x043 class=summary> Do we provide tech:OperatingFactor? ğŸ‘ 4 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; defined as a factor which influences the operation of the technology, and also as parts of the technology and of the environment which affect the technology i.e. they are a &quot;factor&quot; in relation to the technology's operations</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> Do we model more specific categories of operating factors? ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  </p>
<p id=x045 class=summary> If yes, which categories? (shown in hierarchy)</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Requirements oriented: Required ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  ; Optional ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  ;</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> Effect oriented: Suitable ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (is okay to have); Ideal (gives optimal results) ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (may involve optional factors as well as necessary factors); Unsuitable ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (is not okay to have); Problematic (gives problematic results) ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; Untested ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  </p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Relation between factors and existing concepts like data, processing, technology, etc. <a href="https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/tech-operating-factors#Sec3">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dev/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>tech-operating-factors#Sec3</a> gives a list of existing properties in DPV and how they relate to the Factor concept. idea: we provide categories of factors (as above) to describe their relation to the operation i.e. required, suitable etc. and then the existing properties describe the factor in more detail e.g. tech has required factor as specific categories of data; e.g. tech has ideal factor â€“ where the factor is described using 1) specific categories of data 2) from specific sources and 2) which has quality assurance (org measure). In the above, we are still describing &quot;data&quot; as a factor, as in it is a single thing, and therefore this is distinct from an use-case</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> Conclusions: We see value in providing information about factors and how they relate to the technology and where / whether they are suitable, but do not yet have clarity on how these should be modelled or how these will work with other concepts.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Secondary Use</h3>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283">Issue 283</a></strong> [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x052 class=summary> continued discussion</p>
<p id=x053 class=summary> discussing <a href="https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/secondary-uses">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dev/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>secondary-uses</a> </p>
<p id=x054 class=summary> Question: what should we call the top concept for this? dpv:CompatibilityOfUse ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes (has &quot;of&quot; which we avoid if we can); dpv:Compatibility ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (will need compatible/incompatible concepts); dpv:ReuseCompatibility ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (can imply only reuse/secondary) -- most preferred option</p>
<p id=x055 class=summary> Question: what concepts should we model (shown in hierarchy)? dpv:PrimaryUse ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:PrimaryInitialUse ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:PrimaryCompatibleReuse ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:SecondaryUse (incompatible with primary) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:SecondaryContextualReuse ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:TertiaryUse (secondary + different context) ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes -- 3+ votes are accepted for continued discussion, rest need to be clarified</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x057 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JUN-05 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x058 class=summary> Agenda will be EHDS concepts led by Georg, and continued discussions from today on use-case categories, operating factors, and secondary use concepts</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Harsh to review EHDS concepts, Stratis to also review</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Julio and Delaram to share work done in TAIR with Georg and Harsh, and then consolidate with Georg's proposal for AI Act so we don't repeat work</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
