<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 12 NOV 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>12 NOV 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251112T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, JulioHernandez</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">DPVCG co-chairs</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">W3C reports</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">Improve Documentation</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t06">Examples, Use-Cases</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t07">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t08">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">NIS2</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t12">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t13">EU Omnibus</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">ISO 29151</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t15">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251112T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251112T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-12">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-11-12</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-05">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-11-05</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>DPVCG co-chairs</h4>
<p id=x015 class=summary>See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389">Issue 389</a></strong> DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> Confirmation of DPVCG co-chairs: Harsh and Beatriz <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Nov/<wbr>0000.html</a> and responses (tracking issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389)">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>issues/<wbr>389)</a></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> confirm (no objections registered on mailing list or elsewhere)</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> no objections raised; accepted to have new co-chairs</p>
<h4 id=t03>DPVCG Charter</h4>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Working document: <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc</a></p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> is the structure/approach okay?</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s03"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> +1 used the template which is good, and its good that its focused on what we are and what we are not doing, and having a concrete set of deliverables</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> contribution mechanics section - some groups mention about a process for archival e.g. works should be in github; so for DPVCG should we specify where it goes e.g. to Zenodo with a DOI. </p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> w3c reports is the official &quot;archival&quot; as they are committed to maintain this</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> meant as a permalink to the report; maybe this should be in the charter or contribution guidelines?</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> maybe we should mention that we produce works and this is official only when published by w3c?</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> we mention this is the official artefact etc. this is the url</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we mention w3id.org/dpv is the official urls for work published by DPVCG and then we submit these by w3c for publication; agree this would be good for the deliverables section</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s04"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Make sure the contribution guidelines at <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/wiki/Contribution-Guide">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Contribution-Guide</a> is up to date before mentioning it in the charter</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> agreed</p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> agreed with the structure of the draft; Harsh will restructure the draft based on this discussion and then circulate it on the mailing list for further feedback/comments and then next week we will work on this. The goal is to have the draft be circulated for approval and then to have the charter be ready by next year so we are in a good position to talk about standardisation.</p>
<h4 id=t04>W3C reports</h4>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> working on submitting the v2.2.1 and changes to prior versions (red box saying this is outdated) to the w3c for publishing our outputs. The w3id issues for some purls have been fixed.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Improve Documentation</h3>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary> Harsh initial simplification proposal at <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>dpv-simplification/<wbr>dpv.html</a></p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> being implemented, next week will go live for 2.3-dev; still room for improvement, feedback until publication of v2.3</p>
<h4 id=t06>Examples, Use-Cases</h4>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We need more examples, need to register use-cases for new concepts as agreed previous. For these, are there any good examples / good practices we should follow? Otherwise we have existing examples, and use-cases is a separate document that we can continue with <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/use-cases/">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>use-cases/</a></p>
<p id=x043 class=summary> no new suggestions recorded, will continue with existing methods</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> For new concepts such as proportionality and AI agents etc. will draft examples and use-cases and these will be discussed async directly with the relevant contributors</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Updates</h3>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> For the below topics, there will be dedicated meetings with people who have expressed interest (let me know if you are interested in being involved). We will report back proposals and findings with consensus. This will allow us to move forward with concepts faster than taking things up one by one in the meetings.</p>
<h4 id=t08>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Beatriz and Georg have proposed concepts, Harsh is reviewing until end of Nov. </p>
<h4 id=t09>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Delaram, Georg, and Harsh working on list of topics with a focus on coverage (i.e. more of AI Act) than depth (i.e. specific article or obligation)</p>
<h4 id=t10>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> updates - next: discussion of a selection of a minimal set of identified concepts to describe a synthetic use case: next Monday. After that: proposal for addition.</p>
<h4 id=t11>NIS2</h4>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Georg and Harsh working on incident reporting</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t13>EU Omnibus</h4>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> EU's &quot;simplification&quot; and &quot;omnibus&quot; proposals are leaked as drafts for the GDPR and AI Act. We are expecting full proposals on NOV-19. They change key criteria such as personal data, special categories, and others. These are changes in definitions which we have modelled into the DPV. So if this goes through we will need to revisit what it means for DPV.</p>
<h4 id=t14>ISO 29151</h4>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> ISO/IEC FDIS 29151 Information security, cybersecurity and privacy protection â€” Controls, requirements, and guidance for personally identifiable information protection <a href="https://www.iso.org/standard/88151.html">https://<wbr>www.iso.org/<wbr>standard/<wbr>88151.html</a> is being developed and is currently in the final draft stage. It contains lots of concepts that are relevant for the DPV's tech/org measures. This is a good resource we should look at.</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Stratis, do standards like these also feature / are relevant for the proposals made in your thesis?</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s05"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> Yes, but I'm doubtful we can add them directly. We should add to existing extensions - that makes sense, adding new vocabularies for each standard doesn't make sense. Interested in participanting in meetings on this topic.</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Delaram was also of the same opinion, so I think we have alignment on how to work on standards for improving DPV and then those that offer certification or evidence. Focus is on GDPR certifications, like the one from Luxembourg featured in your thesis. I will organise a meeting for standards (also GDPR certifications).</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s05"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> For proposals made regarding codes of conduct will need technical expertise for formalisation of the legal part in to the concepts etc.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x070 class=summary> The next meeting will be on NOV-19 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
