<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 10 SEP 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>10 SEP 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250910T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Generic Places</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">ServiceMaintainence (Purpose)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">GDPR Purpose Compatibility</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t06">MLDCAT-AP &amp; CRDM</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">LEGAL-DE GDNG</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t08">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Proportionality (post-meeting)</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250910T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250910T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-09-10">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-09-10</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.2</h3>
<p id=x013 class=summary> milestone <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>7</a> -- new issues</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> release candidate published <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/releases/tag/dpv-2.2-rc">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>releases/<wbr>tag/<wbr>dpv-2.2-rc</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> changelog <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/2.2/changelog">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>2.2/<wbr>changelog</a></p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> comment period until SEP-15</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Generic Places</h3>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/384">Issue 384</a></strong> Modelling Generic Locations/Places (e.g. Airport, School) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Modelling Locations e.g. to indicate high-risk AI is deployed for facial recognition at Airport, School (was previously subjective locations <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209)">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>issues/<wbr>209)</a></p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> previous discusion (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/384">#384</a>) Current discussion: 1) is this in scope? 2) where do we put them? e.g. loc/places namespace?</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Agree its in scope</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Example CCTV using facial recognition at Airport -- how to represent &quot;at the Airport&quot;?</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> What is the relevance of this? Is it a public / private space? Why specifically Airport? E.g. if they are at home or at work there are specific regulations.</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> For legal investigations, ultimately the only things that matter are whether its a private/public place or a regulated environment like work.</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s04"><cite>TyttiRintamaki:</cite> from DPIA requirements -- school, home, work, religious places (places of worship).</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Can we declare School as both organisation and location since its both?</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s04"><cite>TyttiRintamaki:</cite> What about public road and public transportation?</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Public road and public transportation is included in the definition of &quot;public realm&quot; or &quot;public spaces&quot;.</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We have the sector extension so these can go e.g. in Infrastructure</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s04"><cite>TyttiRintamaki:</cite> Where does religious institutions fit in?</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> its not in sector or location, so we need a better name space. E.g. physically I'm at home, but contextually I'm at work</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Yes, that's why you declare them both together as location and both go in personal data whereas others are not tied to the person and go in the infrastructure extension.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Options for discussion next time: 1) within existing LOC, 2) new extension within LOC, 3) existing PD (school, work) or SECTOR (road goes in INFRA) as applicable, 4) new extension not existing</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> HarshPandit to create issue to track this discussion and add options</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>ServiceMaintainence (Purpose)</h3>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287">Issue 287</a></strong> [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We have <code>ServiceMaintainence</code> proposed as a concept. In addition, Tytti's work on DPIA has also found additional Service related concepts. So in addition to the proposal, we also need to discuss how they relate to each other e.g. is <code>ServiceMaintainence</code> the parent concept of these others.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> TyttiRintamaki collect different ServiceXYZ concepts and add them to Issue 287</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>GDPR Purpose Compatibility</h3>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298">Issue 298</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> 1) do we only model compatibility concepts or 2) also mention implications e.g. incompatible purposes require assessment of legal basis or to get a different legal basis e.g. consent</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> If 2, then do we also provide guidance on how to assess compatibility based on DPV concepts?</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Providing guidelines is a legal matter (of expertise)</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> <a href="https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/data-protection-principles/a-guide-to-the-data-protection-principles/purpose-limitation#compatible_purpose">https://<wbr>ico.org.uk/<wbr>for-organisations/<wbr>uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/<wbr>data-protection-principles/<wbr>a-guide-to-the-data-protection-principles/<wbr>purpose-limitation#compatible_purpose</a></p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Even this list is not exhaustive</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Yes, so we are merely showing how DPV concepts help document the examples given by ICO</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s06"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> 1) Does DPV have the term <code>Proportionality</code> -- so should this be added? 2) Do we have a link with TOMs for the purpose compatibility (Art.6(4))?</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Should we add it as a principle? (proportionality)</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s06"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> Yes, its a principle but its not the same as say Art.5 principles</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> ICO page (above) What is the difference between necessity which exists so that we can model it as proportionality?</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s06"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> Better to add this as a separate agenda item. Something can be necessary but be disproportionate because it affects the person too much. So there it shouldn't be done. This is called a 'stricto sensu' (latin) proportionality.</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> isn't this what &quot;legitimate&quot; expresses, Whether something is &quot;necessary&quot;, maybe depends on whom you ask</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh and Stratis to organise a meeting to formualte a propose for this</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> example of necessity outside GDPR / law <a href="https://necessaryandproportionate.org/principles/">https://<wbr>necessaryandproportionate.org/<wbr>principles/</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t06>MLDCAT-AP &amp; CRDM</h4>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Attended the MLDCAT-AP webinar this morning where they shared ongoing work for v3 of their spec which will be aligned with AI Act Code of Practice for GPAI models. MLDCAT-AP already uses DPV (<code>dpv:hasData</code>) and I have recommended using more properties and concepts. There is a heavy emphasis on text within the specification instead of a controlled vocabulary / taxonomy approach that DPV takes.<br>
<span id=x059>â€¦ HarshPandit <a href="https://github.com/SEMICeu/MLDCAT-AP/">SEMICeu/<wbr>MLDCAT-AP</a> MLDCAT-AP was mentioned to be planned for release in September</span></p>
<p id=x060 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> In the same webinar, the Publications Office also presented their ongoing work on CRDM (Corporate Reference Data Management) which is producing AI related taxonomies to represent work within the EU Commission. These taxonomies will sit in EuroVoc alongside existing taxonomies like locations. Demo: <a href="https://showvoc.op.europa.eu/#/datasets/CRDM_AI_Taxonomy_Proposal/data">https://<wbr>showvoc.op.europa.eu/#/<wbr>datasets/<wbr>CRDM_AI_Taxonomy_Proposal/<wbr>data</a></p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Currently, it contains three broad taxonomies - 1) AI Approaches which are like Capabilities in DPV's AI, but which contains applications like Chatbot and categories like GenAI and LLM which are model separately as categories of the technology itself; 2) AI Systems which are categories of AI systems of which DPV's AI only has GPAI system; and 3) ML which contains what is part of DPV's AI Techniques.</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The Publications Office mentioned that they curated this list with definitions and links to literature as state of the art, and that these would be formal taxonomies. Therefore I propose that we align the DPV's taxonomies to these e.g. by adding concepts that are missing. </p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> I have also mentioned the DPV work to them in the webinar, and asked about plans to model purposes or intended uses -- but it was mentioned that there are no plans because they don't know how to mention what should be part of these concepts. So we are ahead of the curve here, which is a good opportunity for us, and we should take advantage of it.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to propose concepts based on CRDM AI Taxonomy</p>
<h4 id=t07>LEGAL-DE GDNG</h4>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We received a request (proposal) from a member of German Medical Informatics Initiative (MII) to add German law -- new Gesundheitsdatennutzungsgesezt (GDNG) -- which provides legal basis for health data like the EHDS, and the extension will help in expressing data use and access restrictions. Question is how to do this as this is the first time we will be providing a law at national level.</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> The key part here also includes link to EHDS as in implementing the same processes and principles.</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The suggested measure here is to put a namespace inside LEGAL-DE, much like we do for EU and GDPR or AI Act, but mentioning it here specifically as this is a national law and what we setup here will be used for other national laws as yes</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s05"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Will this concern non-DPA authorities? <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/261">w3c/<wbr>dpv#261</a></p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Yes, but we already have that question open for AI Act, NIS2, and EHDS as well.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x073 class=summary> The next meeting will be on SEP-17 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST</p>
<p id=x074 class=summary> Agenda will be continuation of today's discussion regarding generic places, service maintainence, purpose compatibility, and proportionality/necessity. In addition, the meeting will also confirm whether v2.2 should be released as final version, after which it will be submitted to W3C as our formal group report.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Proportionality (post-meeting)</h3>
<p id=x076 class=summary> post-meeting session with participants HarshPandit and StratisKoulierakis</p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s06"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> <code>Proportionality</code> is a concept which is present in EU law outside the GDPR, so it is well established. We should model is as states containing <code>Proportionate</code> or <code>Disproportionate</code> (confirmed term occurs in case law). In addition, we will need <code>ProportinalityAssessment</code> and <code>NecessityAssessment</code> as concepts as well.</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> How do we express the relation between these?</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s06"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> Proportionality involves steps 1) suitability assessment -- is the activity going to bring the desired effect? 2) is this activity necessary or are there alternative and better approaches? Further concept <code>Strict Proportionality</code> also called the balancing exercise i.e. to balance the rights of person and detriments to them with the intended activity. So proportionality assessments have three components: 1) SuitabilityAssessment 2) NecessityAssessment 3) BalancingAssessment. Proportionality comes up e.g. when the controller has legitimate interests, then its required to have a proportionality concept. </p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to model concepts as per Stratis' suggestion for discussion.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">HarshPandit to create issue to track this discussion and add options</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">TyttiRintamaki collect different ServiceXYZ concepts and add them to Issue 287</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Harsh and Stratis to organise a meeting to formualte a propose for this</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Harsh to propose concepts based on CRDM AI Taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Harsh to model concepts as per Stratis' suggestion for discussion.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
