<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>(MEETING TITLE) &ndash; 03 September 2019</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>(MEETING TITLE)</h1>
<h2>03 September 2019</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Sep/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/09/03-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>fajar</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">how to proceed to the next version of the spec?</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">AOB</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x006 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> James, are you new in the group?</p>
<p id=x007 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> if so, do you know how to join the call?</p>
<p id=x008 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Sep/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Sep/<wbr>0000.html</a></p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> last calls was scheduled for 6th Aug, but no one attended, so there were no minutes recorded<br>
<span id=x013>â€¦ Last meeting call was 18th June</span></p>
<p id=x014 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: approve minutes from <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/06/18-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>06/<wbr>18-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x016 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x017 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> all other questions prior to publication have been resolved per email.</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> approve minutes from <a href="https://www.w3.org/2019/06/18-dpvcg-minutes">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>06/<wbr>18-dpvcg-minutes</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>how to proceed to the next version of the spec?</h3>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> progress so far - we advertised the spec via mailing lists, events, etc.</p>
<p id=x021 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> did we send the spec for feedback to the mydata last?</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s02"><cite>elmar:</cite> (going to My Data)</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> elmar to advertise DPVCG at mydata and send it to the mydata global list.</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-123 - Advertise dpvcg at mydata and send it to the mydata global list. [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2019-09-10].</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>elmar:</cite> My Data is 25-27 September in Helsinki</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>elmar:</cite> (discussion sessions in My Data and which would be suitable for presenting DPV)</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Elmar: involved in Mydata in two sessions. will contact Sille and others from Mydata.</p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> harsh has some slides on the vocabulary that he can share</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> can we reuse slides for ODBASE ?</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> elmar to Look for an open space in the myData program to advertise the vocabulary</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> axel: maybe check whether they have an openspace agein?</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> elmar to Look for an open space in the myData program to advertise the vocabulary</p>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-124 - Look for an open space in the mydata program to advertise the vocabulary [on Elmar Kiesling - due 2019-09-10].</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>fajar:</cite> we can also present something at SEMANTiCS</p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Harsh and Fajar will be going to SEMANTiCS...</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> who is going? (ans: Sabrina, Fajar, Harsh)</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh/Fajar to advertise at SEMANTiCS.</p>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'Harsh/Fajar'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> fajar to advertise at SEMANTiCS.</p>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-125 - Advertise at semantics. [on Fajar Ekaputra - due 2019-09-10].</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> any other channels?</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s03"><cite>fajar:</cite> semantic web mailing list? (axel already announced it, not much response)</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel snet an [ANN] mail to w3c sw-list</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> another mail would only make sense on the next version.</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Bert, are you there?</p>
<p id=x046 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/</a></p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s02"><cite>elmar:</cite> update details on homepage</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel ask bert to update the CGWebpage to advertise the drafts more prominently.</p>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-126 - Ask bert to update the cgwebpage to advertise the drafts more prominently. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-09-10].</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> should we get back to regular meeting calls on biweekly schedule?</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bert&gt;</cite> Hi axelpolleres. Yes, I'm here, but I need to finish some important work. â˜¹ Sorry, should have sent some email.</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: get back to usual  biweekly telco schedule until end of the year, or until we're finished, what happens earlier.</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> (everyeone agrees on call)</p>
<p id=x056 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> get back to usual  biweekly telco schedule until end of the year, or until we're finished, what happens earlier.</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> âŸ¶ this means we stick for now with Tue 16:00 central Europe time...</p>
<p id=x060 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> harsh: none of the feedback has been incorporated yet.</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> axel: what do we have?</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> 1) Martin's reviews on the paper, which can be incorporated into the spec</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite>  - martin's review on the paper/spec</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> 2) diff between paper and text in spec to see what has changed, and update accordingly</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> - paragraph additional text from the paper at ODBASE that might also help the spec</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> We also had this feedback regarding correcting datatypes in spec - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2019Jul/0029.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2019Jul/<wbr>0029.html</a></p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to ask simon steyskal are your comments still open on the spec</p>
<p id=x068 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-127 - Ask simon steyskal are your comments still open on the spec [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-09-10].</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> we also had some comments from Simon in July</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s03"><cite>fajar:</cite> keep an online list to collect all inputs to see whether they have been addressed</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> fajar, will try to recollect all the inputs and (not-)addressed issues in the spec.</p>
<p id=x072 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Error finding 'fajar,'. You can review and register nicknames at &lt;<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/users">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>users</a>&gt;.</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> fajar will try to recollect all the inputs and (not-)addressed issues in the spec.</p>
<p id=x074 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-128 - Will try to recollect all the inputs and (not-)addressed issues in the spec. [on Fajar Ekaputra - due 2019-09-10].</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: use the issues tracker on W3C.</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> for each set of open comments or feedback, we should create an issue and track progress using that (W3C tracker)</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> Should still use the issue tracker, but the Google Sheet would provide an overview</p>
<p id=x078 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> fajar will prepare the open things in a way that we can discuss them and discuss it with Harsh at SEMANTiCS... if HArsh and Fajar can send around a list at semantics to send around, we havee another week to have replies coming in on the mailinglist.</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> optimistically, by 1 but next telco (i.e. in a month) we can vote for resolutions of all open issues.</p>
<p id=x080 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> unless new issues/comments we could then have them incorporated, start internal reviewing mid october</p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> internal reviews by end october in, incorporated/voted to publish by mid Nov?</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x084 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> goal publish before end November.</p>
<p id=x085 class=irc><cite>&lt;elmar&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;Bud_&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Axel to check in the next telcos, whethrer we're on track for that timplan.</p>
<p id=x088 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-129 - Check in the next telcos, whethrer we're on track for that timplan. [on Axel Polleres - due 2019-09-10].</p>
<p id=x089 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> for use-cases and examples, we could use an existing use-case from a project and document dpv application to that</p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s01"><cite>axelpolleres:</cite> anyone willing to document one of the SPECIAL use-cases using the DPV?</p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s02"><cite>elmar:</cite> anyone still working with the project partners?</p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> is this an use-case that covers everything or only one aspect e.g. legal base</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s04"><cite>bud:</cite> I can work with Eva to have an use-case on a limited scenario</p>
<p id=a10 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> bud to discuss with eva to start a use case document?</p>
<p id=x095 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Created ACTION-130 - Discuss with eva to start a use case document? [on Bud P. Bruegger - due 2019-09-10].</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> would particularly involve picking a use case.</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> topicc: action list</p>
<p id=x098 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/track/actions/open">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>track/<wbr>actions/<wbr>open</a></p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> CLOSE ACTION-116</p>
<p id=x100 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-116.</p>
<p id=x101 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> CLOSE ACTION-118</p>
<p id=x102 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-118.</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> CLOSE ACTION-119</p>
<p id=x104 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-119.</p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;Fajar&gt;</cite> Link to the compiled issues: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fRtIy1Cmh6RpWrCB7Cs6XZn504pJqIMAeJ2BhoZsdvs/edit?usp=sharing">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1fRtIy1Cmh6RpWrCB7Cs6XZn504pJqIMAeJ2BhoZsdvs/<wbr>edit?usp=sharing</a></p>
<p id=x106 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> to talk to Mark about ACTION-87 and ACTION-114 regarding relevance, progress, or whether they should be closed</p>
<p id=x107 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> Axel: Ithink ACTION-114 and ACTION-87 were referring to Mark's reservation on relying to NACE alone in the spec. HE should be asked whether he wants to further address that before we close them.</p>
<p id=x108 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> close ACTION-81</p>
<p id=x109 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Closed ACTION-81.</p>
<p id=x110 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> ACTION-36 to leave open until close of ACTION-130 as it relates to use-case</p>
<p id=x111 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> leave open closing of ACTION-36 until closing of ACTION-130</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-36: leave open closing of ACTION-36 until closing of ACTION-130</p>
<p id=x113 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-36 Add points 1.-6. from <a href="https://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-dpvcg/2018nov/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>archives/<wbr>public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2018nov/<wbr>0000.html</a> to <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/special/proximus_use_case.">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>dpvcg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>special/<wbr>proximus_use_case.</a></p>
<p id=x114 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> ACTION-87: talk to Mark about regarding relevance, progress, or whether they should be closed</p>
<p id=x115 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-87 Make a proposal alternatively use gics instead of nace..</p>
<p id=x116 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> ACTION-114: talk to Mark about regarding relevance, progress, or whether they should be closed</p>
<p id=x117 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-114 Make a concrete proposal along specification of data controller categories by sector in the spec..</p>
<p id=x118 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> ACTION-11: Axel will close it after having talked to Simon.</p>
<p id=x119 class=bot><cite>&lt;trackbot&gt;</cite> Notes added to ACTION-11 Reach out to industrial data spaces project (germany) and another austrian big data project (dma)..</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>AOB</h3>
<p id=x121 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> nothing else (on call)</p>
<p id=x122 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> adjourned and talk in two weeks ... seems you couldn't hear me anymore, I can hear you</p>
<p id=x123 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> THanks!</p>
<p id=x130 class=irc><cite>&lt;axelpolleres&gt;</cite> hehe, I always keep on forgetting the command ðŸ˜‰ï¸Ž</p>
<p id=x131 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> I googled it ;)</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">elmar to advertise DPVCG at mydata and send it to the mydata global list.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">elmar to Look for an open space in the myData program to advertise the vocabulary</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Harsh/Fajar to advertise at SEMANTiCS.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">fajar to advertise at SEMANTiCS.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Axel ask bert to update the CGWebpage to advertise the drafts more prominently.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Axel to ask simon steyskal are your comments still open on the spec</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">fajar, will try to recollect all the inputs and (not-)addressed issues in the spec.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">fajar will try to recollect all the inputs and (not-)addressed issues in the spec.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">Axel to check in the next telcos, whethrer we're on track for that timplan.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a10">bud to discuss with eva to start a use case document?</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">approve minutes from https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2019/<wbr>06/<wbr>18-dpvcg-minutes</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">get back to usual  biweekly telco schedule until end of the year, or until we're finished, what happens earlier.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
