<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 26 JUN 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>26 JUN 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250626T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, MarkLizar, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">SEMIC 2025</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Minutes Generator Error</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">IT DPA Consultation</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">v2.2 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">DPIA concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AI data labelling</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">ServiceManagement concept</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250626T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250626T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-06-26">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-06-26</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t02>SEMIC 2025</h4>
<p id=x014 class=summary> <a href="https://interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/collection/semic-conference">https://<wbr>interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/<wbr>collection/<wbr>semic-conference</a></p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> legal workshop mentioned in agenda of SEMIC 2025 (November in Copenhagen), to try and find out what this workshop is and submit/present DPV there</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> +1</p>
<h4 id=t03>Minutes Generator Error</h4>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> 200_seriliase_RDF script and 300_HTML generation are now broken (will create issue)</p>
<h4 id=t04>IT DPA Consultation</h4>
<p id=x020 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> is anyone answering the Itialian DPA call for public comment ?  &quot;Measure of 29 April 2025 - Public consultation to acquire contributions, observations and proposals regarding the implementation of Pay or Ok models [10126652]&quot; <a href="https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/10126652">https://<wbr>www.gpdp.it/<wbr>web/<wbr>guest/<wbr>home/<wbr>docweb/-/<wbr>docweb-display/<wbr>docweb/<wbr>10126652</a> </p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> DMA decision regarding Meta <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/competition/digital_markets_act/cases/202525/DMA_100055_528.pdf">https://<wbr>ec.europa.eu/<wbr>competition/<wbr>digital_markets_act/<wbr>cases/<wbr>202525/<wbr>DMA_100055_528.pdf</a> </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>v2.2 release</h3>
<p id=x023 class=summary> admin work - prep for 2.2 release and create 2.3 dev </p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> should we update w3id?</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> think it already contains 2.2, so we will need to update it for 2.3, but lets do it in a way that it can deal with any numbers automatically so we don't have to update it with every release (i.e using regex)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>DPIA concepts</h3>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183">Issue 183</a></strong> Represent activities where DPIA is required in EU-GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s05"><cite>TyttiRintamaki:</cite> examples updated to reflect the proposal for modelling DPIA required processes</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> documentation for what are these concepts, how to use them â€“ also better to create a separate issue to discuss these; also good to have DPIA not required processes modelled alongside these so we know the concepts/structure works for both</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>AI data labelling</h3>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/289">Issue 289</a></strong> [NEW]: Add concepts to represent labelling and other data tasks in AI development (by frogcat)</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> modelling AI labelling (to take up in 2.3 based on recent developments in ISO for defining these terms)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>ServiceManagement concept</h3>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287">Issue 287</a></strong> [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> paper <a href="https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5120741">https://<wbr>papers.ssrn.com/<wbr>sol3/<wbr>papers.cfm?abstract_id=5120741</a> ; will add description and example of concept in issue</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x037 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JUL-03 Thursday <code>13:30WET</code>/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x038 class=summary> Agenda will be finalising DPV v2.2 scope and release, and starting work on v2.3</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
