<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 22 MAY 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>22 MAY 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250522T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, IainHenderson, JulianFlake, MarkLizar, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Representing Use-Cases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Operating Factors / Environment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Secondary Use</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250522T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250522T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-05-22">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-05-22</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Representing Use-Cases</h3>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284">Issue 284</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> continued discussion</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> discussed <code>UseCase</code> as a concept to be added to DPV</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> discussed link between use-case and risk</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> discussed relation and implications of this concept for modelling AI Act e.g. where and how to specify within use-cases associated risks and impacts or how these relate to prohibited systems</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> no conclusions</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Operating Factors / Environment</h3>
<p id=x020 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285">Issue 285</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> continued discussed</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> discussed this concept and &quot;environment of operation&quot; in AI Act Art.15-4 and Recital 75</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> agree on the role of this concept but no conclusions on specific categories to be included</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Secondary Use</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283">Issue 283</a></strong> [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> continued discussion on compatibility as a concept in GDPR, AI Act, and EHDS</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> agree with the usefulness of compatibility concept, unclear use and implications of the regulation specific concepts and the new concepts such as tertiary use</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> example under GDPR <a href="https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/data-protection-principles/a-guide-to-the-data-protection-principles/purpose-limitation">https://<wbr>ico.org.uk/<wbr>for-organisations/<wbr>uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/<wbr>data-protection-principles/<wbr>a-guide-to-the-data-protection-principles/<wbr>purpose-limitation</a></p>
<p id=x029 class=summary> example under GDPR <a href="https://commission.europa.eu/law/law-topic/data-protection/rules-business-and-organisations/principles-gdpr/purpose-data-processing/can-we-use-data-another-purpose_en">https://<wbr>commission.europa.eu/<wbr>law/<wbr>law-topic/<wbr>data-protection/<wbr>rules-business-and-organisations/<wbr>principles-gdpr/<wbr>purpose-data-processing/<wbr>can-we-use-data-another-purpose_en</a></p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> no conclusions</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x032 class=summary> The next meeting will be on MAY-29 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> Agenda will be continued discussions from today on use-case categories, operating factors, and secondary use concepts</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
