<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 27 FEB 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>27 FEB 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250227T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, mayraRusso, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">AI Training</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Subjective Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Inverted Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Uncategorised/Unstructured Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-02-27">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-02-27</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>AI Training</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/82">Issue 82</a></strong> Provide vocabulary to specify purposes and permissions related to AI training (by scottkellum)</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> email by harsh on mailing list <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Feb/0010.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Feb/<wbr>0010.html</a></p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> I tried out the implications of defining AI training as a <code>dpv:Process</code>, as a <code>dpv:Processing</code>, and as an <code>ai:Technique</code>. See the comment in github issue and the linked blog post for examples and more details. Based on this I propose to add training as part of the technique taxonomy in AI extension, and to distinguish between those that use data - which we define as <code>dpv:Processing</code> - and those that don't. We already have some concepts related to training like supervised training in the taxonomy, so this will also avoid having to create duplicate technique and training taxonomies. IncrementalTraining and FederatedTraining have AI specific meaning - so they can go to the Technique taxonomy.</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> The concepts for frequency, duration, location, actor, etc. associated with training should be expressed through <code>dpv:Process</code> like we do for the other activities. Otherwise we will need more properties just for training - its better to use a common pattern as training is just another factor in the process. </p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> Where will get the definitions for these from?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> These are common terms in the ML/AI domain, so there should be a reference or a link to some glossary that we can use e.g. from IEEE or IBM or something like that. Since these are technical aspects / techniques, and not procedural or policy concepts, we can find reference to definitions/descriptions in existing implementations.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> IBM risk atlas <a href="https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/watsonx/saas?topic=ai-risk-atlas">https://<wbr>www.ibm.com/<wbr>docs/<wbr>en/<wbr>watsonx/<wbr>saas?topic=ai-risk-atlas</a> for AI risk taxonomy enrichment</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s03"><cite>mayraRusso:</cite> not sure about training under technique, seems more like a process</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> I see the point, so there's a proposal also to add <code>ai:AIProcess</code> to flag that AI is being used in the process - which could be training or something else. Then the technique or method used for training, data, etc. can also be specified there.</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> group will evaluate the proposal / use-case and discuss this in later meetings</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Subjective Locations</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209">Issue 209</a></strong> [Concept]: `AtX` subjective Location concepts  (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> use-cases described as last week, with RDF examples; only unclear bit is browser cookie - how to state third party managed location within personal space? E.g. private owned shop but owned by someone else. Complex concept to state. Also see email to mailing list <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Feb/0010.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Feb/<wbr>0010.html</a> and the github issue</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> group will evaluate the proposal / use-case and discuss this in later meetings</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Inverted Locations</h3>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/208">Issue 208</a></strong> [Concept]: Add Non-X (X = specific location) to represent locations that are not X (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> see email <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Feb/0010.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Feb/<wbr>0010.html</a> and github issue</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> group will evaluate the proposal / use-case and discuss this in later meetings</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Uncategorised/Unstructured Data</h3>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/240">Issue 240</a></strong> Add `UnstructuredData` and `UncategorisedData` concepts/properties (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Proposal from RobBrennan and myself to add uncategorised and unstructured as categorisations for data. Uncategorised refers to not knowing whether some data is personal data or not (or other categories) - which is a risk. Unstructured refers to not knowing how the data is structured or organised - which is a different risk. The context is a health governance project where flagging that data is unstructured/uncategorised helps with data quality and legal assessments.</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> These concepts are also helpful later as ai has labelled data</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s04"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> is there a difference?</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes e.g. personal data without labels can mean it is not categorised (labelled) </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x040 class=summary> The next meeting will be on MAR-06 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> Agenda will be reviewing and finalising release of v2.1, and continuing discussion on topics started under v2.2</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
