<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 25 FEB 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>25 FEB 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260225T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AjayJadhav, BeatrizEsteves, ChristianDraeger, ElenaMolino, FabianLinde, GabrielaKurteva, GeorgKrog, JulianFlake, MarlinKisia, MatthiasLobe, PaulRyan, RuhiAnandFinn, SalDAgostino, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Submit to LOV</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV v2.3 release</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">w3id updates</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t07">v2.4</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t08">India's DPDP</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Prioritisation</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t10">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260225T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20260225T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-25">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-02-25</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-18">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-02-18</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>Submit to LOV</h4>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> <a href="https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/vocabs/dpv">https://<wbr>lov.linkeddata.es/<wbr>dataset/<wbr>lov/<wbr>vocabs/<wbr>dpv</a></p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> Harsh sent email to maintainers on FEB-19, no reply yet</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV v2.3 release</h3>
<p id=x019 class=summary> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/9">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>9</a></p>
<p id=x020 class=summary>see announcement <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2026Feb/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2026Feb/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> to confirm change to DE-GDNG</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> no other issues identified, we can go ahead with the release.</p>
<h4 id=t04>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> check if Julian/Christian have any comments/issues</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>MatthiasLobe:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s03"><cite>ChristianDraeger:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary> no need for further changes, ready for release</p>
<h4 id=t05>Release</h4>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Okay to release as final? </p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> if yes, then 1) change w3id to point to 2.3 (Beatriz), 2) produce respec final-version of outputs (Harsh) 3) Make announcements on github tracker, dpvcg mailing list</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> people around Dublin are welcome to join in the tradition of having a pizza after every DPV release (hope Ghent people also do the same!)</p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> consensus to go ahead with the release as final</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Release DPV 2.3</p>
<h4 id=t06>w3id updates</h4>
<p id=x037 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/425">Issue 425</a></strong> w3id updates needed for v2.3 (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Change w3id latest to 2.3</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>v2.4</h3>
<p id=x040 class="phone s04"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> proposed work program <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/10">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>10</a> -- review and indicate interest to be involved in the work</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> please indicate directly on issues your interest, meetings happen only with participants who have expressed interest in being involved</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s04"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Please leave thumbs-up or comments in the issues you would like to work on for 2.4, this will help us to prioritise and to arrange ad-hoc meetings with those who showed interest </p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s05"><cite>AjayJadhav:</cite> Can we include the new IN/DPDP extension under the 2.4 milestone?</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s04"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> it is done already</p>
<p id=x045 class=summary> aside, how do we keep track of who is involved in what work? Are people okay with putting this info on the wiki and we keep updating it? Any other suggestions?</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary> all: go ahead with the approach of having an updated list of topics being worked on the wiki, with the names of the people who are interested in it</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create page on wiki to track participants in specific working groups</p>
<h4 id=t08>India's DPDP</h4>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/438">Issue 438</a></strong> [NEW] 16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ meetings to be organised between Ajay, Georg, Harsh, Art</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary> extension added to 2.4 <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/legal/in/dpdp/">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>legal/<wbr>in/<wbr>dpdp/</a></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s05"><cite>AjayJadhav:</cite> all good, work will start in the next weeks</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s04"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Iâ€™m interested in being kept in the loop. I might not contribute with concepts, but I am interested in discussing guidance/implementations, e.g., for consent manager</p>
<h4 id=t09>Prioritisation</h4>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> any other work items people want to prioritise and put on the agenda for next meeting(s)? (see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/milestone/issues/10">milestone#10</a>)</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>MatthiasLobe:</cite> I'm interested in the EHDS topic and commented on the issues. Interested in aligning HealthDCAT vocabularies with DPV.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s04"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> also interested. Interested people to engage with the respective issue (<a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/201">w3c/<wbr>dpv#201</a>)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>AOB</h3>
<p id=x058 class=summary> Mailing list updates (not for discussion) CFP OPAL <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2026Feb/0006.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2026Feb/<wbr>0006.html</a></p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s06"><cite>SalDAgostino:</cite> looking at retail settings use cases combined with things like Facial Recognition. For this, looking at data security standards and how they can map or make use of DPV. Will open a GH issue to assess the interest of other people</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x061 class=summary> The next meeting will be on MAR-04 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Release DPV 2.3</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Change w3id latest to 2.3</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Create page on wiki to track participants in specific working groups</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
