<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 05 NOV 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>05 NOV 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251105T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, IainHenderson, JulianFlake, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Nominating DPVCG chair</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Maintainer</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">DPV 2.2.1 released</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">deprecated warning</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">w3id error</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t07">Documentation revision</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251105T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251105T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-05">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-11-05</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-29">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-29</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Nominating DPVCG chair</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389">Issue 389</a></strong> DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We have 1 candidate (Beatriz Esteves, self-nomination) who has expressed their preference for a co-chair role with myself as the other chair. Links to relevant statements: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Oct/<wbr>0000.html</a> (expression of interest) <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0007.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Oct/<wbr>0007.html</a> (tasks)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We have had support (+7) so far on the mailing list (<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Nov/">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Nov/</a>) from Stratis Koulierakis, Bud P. Bruegger, Piero Bonatti, Axel Polleres, Ajay Jadhav, and Renato Iannella.</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> I have been asked to communicate support on direct emails (+1) from Georg. From those in the meeting, what are people's decisions?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s03"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s04"><cite>TyttiRintamaki:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s05"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s06"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s07"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We have +7 from the meeting for a total of +15 in support, none against. Agreed decision: Harsh and Beatriz as co-chairs</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Confirm Harsh and Beatriz as co-chairs in next meeting</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We will circulate this discussion on the mailing list for input from other non-attending members so they have an opportunity to object. IF no objections are accepted, then next week we will formalise the decision.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Maintainer</h3>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> New Maintainer -- Art, welcome</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPVCG Charter</h3>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Working document: <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc</a></p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> (discussing structure of the document, explanation of each section, why the Charter is needed and what is its role) We have to write and discuss three sections: Goals, Scope, and Out of Scope</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Example Solid CG Charter <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/solid/charter/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>solid/<wbr>charter/</a> </p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s07"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> What about ethical web principles mentioned in the Solid charter? Do we do something similar in ours? <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/ethical-web-principles/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>ethical-web-principles/</a> </p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> No, because these are written for a web technology in mind, which Solid is, whereas DPV isn't. What would be more relevant is the Privacy Principles <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/privacy-principles/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>privacy-principles/</a> which talk about user control and consent/opt-in-out etc. which we can state as being relevant. In the future we can work on mapping how privacy principles can be implemented using DPV</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s07"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> I would argue the ethical web principles are also about the web as in semantic web</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Agree, my concern is that if we specify ethical web principle we might be saying DPV is only for the &quot;web&quot; so otherwise we have broader principles. </p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> So we have privacy preferences in scope for our charter, and then ethical principles in Goals as an example of what DPV can be helpful for as an application</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s07"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Agreed that the privacy principles is much more focused</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> For drafting the charter, who volunteers to support this?</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s07"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Set up DPVCG Charter draft -- Harsh and Art</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>DPV 2.2.1 released</h3>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/releases/tag/dpv-2.2.1">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>releases/<wbr>tag/<wbr>dpv-2.2.1</a></p>
<h4 id=t05>deprecated warning</h4>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/396">Issue 396</a></strong> Add a red box warning for older DPV versions (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Add a red box warning for older DPV versions (done -- see w3id.org/dpv/1.0/dpv)</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> documentation</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Revise default github repo page (done -- see <a href="https://w3c.github.io/dpv/)">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>dpv/)</a></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> New 404 page (same as above, see w3id.org/dpv/error)</p>
<h4 id=t06>w3id error</h4>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/398">Issue 398</a></strong> [FIX]: https://w3id.org/dpv/examples/ redirection is broken (by bact)</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> broken w3id config has now been fixed (confirmed by Art)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Documentation revision</h3>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x057 class=summary> Harsh initial simplification proposal at <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>dpv-simplification/<wbr>dpv.html</a></p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Implement main spec simple layout for 2.3-dev -- Harsh</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x060 class=summary> The next meeting will be on NOV-12 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Confirm Harsh and Beatriz as co-chairs in next meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Set up DPVCG Charter draft -- Harsh and Art</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Implement main spec simple layout for 2.3-dev -- Harsh</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
