<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 03 JUL 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>03 JUL 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250703T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, IainHenderson, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.2 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">v2.3 topics</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">TAIR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">DPIA</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t06">Admin</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250703T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250703T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-07-03">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-07-03</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.2 release</h3>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> delay in creating the draft due to starting new job, expected to have it ready next week</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> Volunteers needed to help reviewing each document/output</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> P7012 - Iain</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> AI, AI Act extension - Delaram</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> GDPR - Tytti</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> DPV tech/org - Julio</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> DPV document - Paul</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> Risk – ??? - Harsh, Georg</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> Art – new legal extensions</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> new Rules - Julian, Beatriz, Harsh</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> Secondary Uses - Beatriz, Georg, Paul</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> w3id – Beatriz and Harsh</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>v2.3 topics</h3>
<p id=x026 class=summary> topics of priority </p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> ODRL</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> EHDS – taxonomy</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary> AI Act – taxonomy</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> Guides</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> Examples and Use-Cases</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> AI training, GPAI uses, Agents</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Updates</h3>
<h4 id=t04>TAIR</h4>
<p id=x035 class=summary> Julio has submitted concepts, Harsh to review</p>
<h4 id=t05>DPIA</h4>
<p id=x037 class=summary> TyttiRintamaki: also looking into DPIA not required activities published by DPAs</p>
<p id=x038 class=summary> TyttiRintamaki: also should do the same for AI Act and prohibited systems</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Admin</h3>
<p id=x040 class=summary> meeting slot changes - poll with options from group</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> Zoom link will change soon</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>AOB</h3>
<p id=x043 class=summary> P7012 – any changes needed for supporting its adoption and usage</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x045 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JUL-10 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x046 class=summary> Agenda will be reviewing DPV v2.2 draft release, and starting work on v2.3</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
