<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 21 JAN 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>21 JAN 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260121T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, ElenaMolino, GabrielaKurteva, HarshPandit, IainHenderson, JanLindquist, JulianFlake, MarlinKisia, PaulRyan, RuhiAnandFinn, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Submit to LOV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">DPV v2.3 release schedule</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t06">ISO taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">NIS2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">DE-GDNG</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t11">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t12">New Members</a></li>
<li><a href="#t13">MyTerms launch</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">CEN wallets &amp; access control</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t15">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260121T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20260121T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-21">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-01-21</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-14">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-01-14</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>DPVCG Charter</h4>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> Vote on approving draft Charter at <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/charter">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>charter</a> ; discuss on <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">w3c/<wbr>dpv#399</a></p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> outcome of voting process: 10 votes from Github issue and confirmed as DPVCG members. No votes on mailing list.</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> &quot;bact&quot;: ArthitSuriyawongkul</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> &quot;besteves4&quot;: BeatrizEsteves</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> &quot;c201845&quot;: Gabriela Kurteva</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> &quot;coolharsh55&quot;: Harshvardhan Pandit</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> &quot;DelaramGlp&quot;: Delaram Golpayegani</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> &quot;elenamolino&quot;: Elena Molina</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> &quot;iainh1&quot;: Iain Henderson</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> &quot;nuthub&quot;: Julian Flake</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> &quot;StrKoulierakis&quot;: Stratis Koulierakis</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> &quot;TyttiKatariina&quot;: Tytti Rintamaki</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> about average participation in the meeting so okay to accept</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Based on these, with no objections registered, we approve the charter.</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> <strong>* DPVCG Charter approved! </strong>*</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Publish formal Charter</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Circulate formal Charter on mailing list</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we are meeting Ian from W3C later today to discuss DPVCG so good to mention we have a Charter</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> there is going to be a w3c breakout day in march and anyone doing anything in w3c can have a session; the event is online; so if Ian mentions this we can discuss whether to have a DPV session (otherwise we can ask) <a href="https://github.com/w3c/breakouts-day-2026/">w3c/<wbr>breakouts-day-2026</a></p>
<h4 id=t03>Submit to LOV</h4>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> we have the reply from LOV maintainers which is positive; so we need to create a spreadsheet with all the extensions and metadata for them to use to update the vocabularies; and then we do the same process i.e. send the spreadsheet of updated extensions for them to update in LOV</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> maybe we can automate the spreadsheet generation process as well</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> should be trivial as we already have this in RDF as well as namespaces in a spreadsheet so we can test with the DPV 2.2 already</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create new issue for LOV management (close <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">#353</a>)</p>
<h4 id=t04>DPV v2.3 release schedule</h4>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Wrapping up the scope today, and will circulate a draft so we have a release end of Jan/early Feb. The next release would then be in June/July.</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> agree to go ahead with DPV v2.3</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> finalise and circulate DPV v2.3 beta for feedback</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Updates</h3>
<h4 id=t06>ISO taxonomy</h4>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> agreed last week the structure and scope (only core ISO concepts; next focus on GDPR CoC and certifications)</p>
<h4 id=t07>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> we had a meeting yesterday focusing on entities and processes; working on feedbacks and updates to harmonise the EHDS concepts with the HEALTH sector extension</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we can mention proposed concepts</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> I will update the template for EHDS to state proposed concepts being worked on</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Beatriz to update EHDS proposed concepts for DPV v2.3</p>
<h4 id=t08>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> For AI Act, we have new concepts that we confident about and there are some concepts which we think need definitions</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s04"><cite>RuhiAnandFinn:</cite> can review the AI Act concepts</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> So we add what has been confirmed and reviewed and the rest we mention as WIP in the HTML - same as EHDS</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Delaram to update and review AI Act proposed concepts for DPV v2.3</p>
<h4 id=t09>NIS2</h4>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x064 class=summary> no updates</p>
<h4 id=t10>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x066 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s05"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> working with Christian ; and also trying to generate the HTML</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t12>New Members</h4>
<p id=x070 class="phone s06"><cite>ElenaMolino:</cite> working with Beatriz at U.Ghent on automated agreement of policies/agreements which use the DPV and have consumer protection requirements; </p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s07"><cite>MarlinKisia:</cite> PhD in U.Ghent with Beatriz in the HARNESS project and working on interoperability of consumer data vaults which requires decentralised infra like Solid pods; <a href="https://harness-network.eu/">https://<wbr>harness-network.eu/</a></p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s08"><cite>GabrielaKurteva:</cite> PhD in TCD with Harsh also in the HARNESS on legal analysis of different regulations to extract actors, rights, and obligations and to see overlaps and contradictions (using DPV)</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s04"><cite>RuhiAnandFinn:</cite> postdoctoral research in RECITALS project <a href="https://recitals-project.eu/">https://<wbr>recitals-project.eu/</a></p>
<h4 id=t13>MyTerms launch</h4>
<p id=x075 class="phone s09"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> IEEE 7012-2025 standard for machine-readable privacy terms ; launching on 28th January F2F in London and as a webinar (<a href="https://mytermswebinar.eventbrite.com">https://<wbr>mytermswebinar.eventbrite.com</a> for online attendance; <a href="https://mytermslondon.eventbrite.com">https://<wbr>mytermslondon.eventbrite.com</a> for in-person in London, UK)</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s09"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> event is free; it mentions DPV for implementation</p>
<p id=x077 class=summary> website: <a href="https://myterms.info/">https://<wbr>myterms.info/</a> </p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s09"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> MyTerms is about privacy policies (terms/contracts) being standardised and written from the perspective of the individual. Two types of agreements: one is about the relationship e.g. consumer and the other is about donating data e.g. altruism. DPV is used for definitions and expressing requirements in machine-readable form.</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s09"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> the standard's implementation will be done by MyTerms Alliance which will have Customers Commons and MyData; there will be a seminar in Brussels at the end of February</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s10"><cite>JanLindquist:</cite> What's the relation between MyTerms and 27560 consent records?</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s09"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> Some of the information is common; though MyTerms is about contracts rather than consent but the privacy implications are relevant; </p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s10"><cite>JanLindquist:</cite> Is 7012 freely available?</p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s09"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> Not yet, but we are trying to have it, or to put the key implementation details via MyTerms</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s10"><cite>JanLindquist:</cite> co-editor of 27560 (with Harsh) which is now about all legal bases rather than just consent so it could be helpful to consider. And 27560 is freely available.</p>
<h4 id=t14>CEN wallets &amp; access control</h4>
<p id=x086 class="phone s10"><cite>JanLindquist:</cite> working with CEN and EUDI wallet (CEN TS-18297)</p>
<p id=x087 class=summary> discussion on wallets and DPV</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x089 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JAN-14 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Publish formal Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Circulate formal Charter on mailing list</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Create new issue for LOV management (close #353)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">finalise and circulate DPV v2.3 beta for feedback</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Beatriz to update EHDS proposed concepts for DPV v2.3</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Delaram to update and review AI Act proposed concepts for DPV v2.3</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
