<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 06 MAR 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>06 MAR 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250306T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, harshPandit, julianFlake, julianHernandez, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">No updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">AI Training</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Subjective Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Inverted Locations</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t06">Uncategorised/Unstructured Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Professionally Confidential Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Smartphone/Device Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Datasheets/Model Cards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-03-06">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-03-06</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>EHDS</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> We should extend the EHDS extension - this is needed for the PACSOI project</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> what is the specific focus or where would DPV be used in the project?</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> Need concepts representing what's in the EHDS - particular for consent for seconday use of health data.</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Okay, so this means we expand upon what we have. I think we also don't have the concept of primary and secondary uses. We should prioritise this. Let's put it on the agenda for 20th to discuss this.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>No updates</h3>
<h4 id=t03>AI Training</h4>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/82">Issue 82</a></strong> Provide vocabulary to specify purposes and permissions related to AI training (by scottkellum)</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> no updates, see previous minutes</p>
<h4 id=t04>Subjective Locations</h4>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209">Issue 209</a></strong> [Concept]: `AtX` subjective Location concepts  (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> no updates, see previous minutes</p>
<h4 id=t05>Inverted Locations</h4>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/208">Issue 208</a></strong> [Concept]: Add Non-X (X = specific location) to represent locations that are not X (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> no updates, see previous minutes</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Uncategorised/Unstructured Data</h3>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/240">Issue 240</a></strong> Add `UnstructuredData` and `UncategorisedData` concepts/properties (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> accepted</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Professionally Confidential Data</h3>
<p id=x035 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/241">Issue 241</a></strong> [Concept]: Add professional secrecy/confidentiality (by daniwelter)</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> proposal based on Luxembourgish DGA implementation (bill) which mentions categorisation of confidential data based on professional secrecy e.g. doctor-patient. </p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> Will this be in the Luxembourgish extension?</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> For the general concept, no - in main DPV as the concept isn't defined in law but is dependant on common use. For the specific concepts defined in the law they will go in the extension.</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> Do we add this to the DGA extension then?</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> also no, because DGA doesn't define this concept - just mentions it as if it was externally defined / known. This mean we put it in to DPV. </p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> accepted</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Smartphone/Device Data</h3>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/244">Issue 244</a></strong> [Concept]: Enhancements for Personal Data Types (by nihadatakishiyev)</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> proposal to add data concepts based on research into smartphone/device identifiers etc. </p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s04"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> IMEI or IMEI address? MEID - similar identifier but no suffix address? Ask the proposers to describe terms precisely</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> assuming we get the naming etc. correct - should we add these?</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> DeviceInfo - not sure what it is adding</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s04"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> ask the proposers to give sources - why this term and why not others</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> browser cookie ? problem is cookie is storage â€¦ what is we create a concept for data in cookie e.g. CookieData?</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s04"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> makes sense, cookie is a technology and it may contain some personal data like identifier, etc. So cookie is only used as a technology, and then the data in it is expressed separately</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> AuthenticationProvider? We have SSO, and tech:hasProvider - do we need a specific concept or the combination is enough?</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s04"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> do we have identity provider?</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> defer this for when we discuss identity - relevant for laws like eID etc.</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> again we should ask for a source /definition so we can see if this is a generic term or a specific one</p>
<p id=x055 class=summary> proposer to provide information and refine the concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Datasheets/Model Cards</h3>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/94">Issue 94</a></strong> Represent Datasheets and Model Cards with DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> I'm teaching Datasheets and Model Cards as part of my Data Governance course this year. We had discussed this previously, and agreed it is in scope of DPV, and should be added. Now I'm working on specific proposals. The question for the group is whether we should just mirror what is in the Datasheets / Model Cards (information) or we should also discuss and expand on it by providing more things like alignment with GDPR or specific additional things we have in DPV like entity involvements and controls.</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> We add these, and we can show how information can be generated using SPARQL queries, etc. - so to show these documentations can be generated from existing data. This will also help with AI Act's technical documentation for example.</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> The idea/question is more similar to how in the consent guide we have comparison with ISO standard and GDPR - similarly here we can do something like this for GDPR and AI Act to show how DPV also helps with legal compliance and not just documentation.</p>
<p id=x061 class=summary> harsh will share work to continue the discussion</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x063 class=summary> The next meeting will be on MAR-13 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x064 class=summary> Agenda will be reviewing and finalising release of v2.1, and continuing discussion on topics started under v2.2</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
