<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 12 JUN 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>12 JUN 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250612T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>JulianFlake</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit, JulianFlake</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Representing Use-Cases</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Alternate proposal</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Discussion</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">Operating Factors / Environment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Secondary Use</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250612T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250612T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-06-12">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-06-12</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Representing Use-Cases</h3>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284">Issue 284</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> continued discussion</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> previous discussion: issue with &quot;Use-Case&quot; as a term as it implies users, interactions, etc. based on its use in software/systems engineering domains; we discussed alternatives such as scenario, policy, etc.</p>
<h4 id=t02>Alternate proposal</h4>
<p id=x017 class=summary> refined proposal <a href="https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/use-cases-02">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dev/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>use-cases-02</a></p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> Method 1: we continue using dpv:Process e.g. hasRecommendedProcess</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> Method 2: we continue using dpv:Rule e.g. hasRecommendation</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> For Intended and Acceptable concepts, we should use something else as these are interpretations or findings and not instructions in the same deontic set as others (e.g. recommendation = SHOULD, deterred = SHOULD NOT). We continue using tech:IntendedUse as it is defined, and we change the parent of eu-aiact:IntendedPurpose from dpv:Purpose to tech:IntendedUse. We add two &quot;policy&quot; concepts under the tech/org Policy concept for representing AcceptableUsePolicy and UnacceptableUsePolicy. </p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> In documentation, we can then specify these directly by using the relations, e.g. for a given ex:Document rdf:type tech:Documentation, we can have: <code>dpv:hasRecommendation dpv:Recommendation (+ e.g. dpv:Process)</code> and <code>dpv:hasProhibition dpv:Prohibition (+ e.g. dpv:Process)</code>, <code>tech:hasIntendedUse tech:IntendedUse (+ e.g. dpv:Process)</code>, <code>eu-aiact:hasIntendedPurpose eu-aiact:IntendedPurpose (+ e.g. dpv:Process)</code>;</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> Pros of doing this - we keep using our existing concepts and don't introduce new concepts as the discussion has shown that we do not have a consensus on the meanings and interpretations which is essential, and we don't have to update any of our guides or documentations as the core concepts have not changed. Cons - we don't use the exact same terms as others e.g. Acceptable Use. To specify these, we define these as RISK concepts to indicate their involvement as a consequence of something i.e. I assess a process and find it unacceptable and similarly for unintended. Note: Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) is the widely and formally used term and &quot;Acceptable Use&quot; is the same term with a different phrasing in most contexts</p>
<h4 id=t03>Discussion</h4>
<p id=x024 class=summary> Discussion of the different concepts around Permissions,  Prohibitions, Obligations.</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> Current suggestion is to have 5 different concepts corresponding  to: must, should, may, should not, must not. (comment for the  notes: this list refers to RFC2119)</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> Concepts should probably not be suffixed with any term discussed  last week (Use, Usage, UsePolicy, Process, etc.). The focus  should be on the first part of  e.g. &quot;Prohibited(Use(Case))&quot;. Therefore concepts should be  expressed by non-composite terms, if possible.</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> Intention, Recommendation are additional concepts that require  appropriate terms.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Operating Factors / Environment</h3>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285">Issue 285</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> As proposed previously, for DPV 2.2, we are adding: <code>tech:OperatingFactor</code> and <code>tech:hasOperatingFactor</code> with definition as a factor that affects or influences the operation of the technology; <code>tech:OperatingEnvironment</code> and <code>tech:hasOperatingEnvironment</code> with definition as the environment (whether physical or virtual) within which the technology operates</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> no new discussions</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Secondary Use</h3>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283">Issue 283</a></strong> [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> As proposed previously, for DPV 2.2, we are adding:</p>
<p id=x035 class=summary> <code>dpv:ReuseCompatibility</code> with <code>dpv:hasReuseCompatibility</code>, and then <code>dpv:PrimaryUse â€“ use is as per the primary context/goal</code> with <code>dpv:PrimaryInitialUse</code> - use defines the initial or first primary use and is the basis for future comparisons of compatibility; <code>dpv:PrimaryCompatibleReuse</code> - use has a different context but is compatible with the primary initial use; with <code>dpv:SecondaryUse</code> - use is not compatible with the primary use.</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary> Question: do we add extended concepts from these for the regulations now in DPV 2.2 or later in DPV 2.3? (did not discuss below concepts)</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary> for GDPR: Purpose Compatibility (defined in guidelines) we have <code>eu-gdpr:PurposeCompatibility</code> (parent: <code>dpv:ReuseCompatibility</code>), <code>eu-gdpr:PurposeCompatible</code> (parent: <code>dpv:PrimaryUse</code>), <code>eu-gdpr:PurposeIncompatible</code> (parent: dpv:<code>SecondaryUse</code>)</p>
<p id=x038 class=summary> for AI Act: Intended Purpose Compatibility (mentioned but not defined e.g. see Art.3-23 substantial modification and Art.3-13 reasonably foreseeable misuse) we have <code>eu-aiact:IntendedPurposeCompatibility</code>, <code>eu-aiact:IntendedPurposeCompatible</code>, <code>eu-aiact:IntendedPurposeIncompaible</code></p>
<p id=x039 class=summary> for EHDS: Secondary Use (defined in law e.g. Chapter IV Secondary Use) we have <code>eu-ehds:ReuseCompatibility</code>, <code>eu-ehds:PrimaryUse</code>, <code>eu-ehds:SecondaryUse</code></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>AOB</h3>
<p id=x041 class=summary> no updates for following items on agenda: TAIR (AI Act concepts), P7012, ODRL, EHDS, DPIA</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x043 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JUN-19 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> Agenda will be finalising DPV v2.2 scope and release, and starting work on v2.3</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
