<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 17 APR 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>17 APR 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250417T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, MarkLizar</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>JulioHernandez</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Secondary Purposes for Data Reuse</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Security Notifications</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">Inversive Location concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Subjective Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Datasheets and Model Cards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AI cards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">AI Act Risk Levels</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250417T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250417T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-04-17">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-04-17</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t02>Secondary Purposes for Data Reuse</h4>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283">Issue 283</a></strong> [NEW]: Secondary Purposes for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> We should discuss secondary Use e.g. in Healthcare and in Public to Private Sector regarding secondary purposes and how they should be modelled in DPV.</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Yes, I sent a note on this to you (Georg) and Beatriz with a proposal that models <code>SecondaryPurpose</code> and <code>TertiaryPurpose</code> and how we can relate that to the existing <code>dpv:Purpose</code> taxonomy.</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> to put this on the agenda for next meeting</p>
<h4 id=t03>Security Notifications</h4>
<p id=x019 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/282">Issue 282</a></strong> Incident and Data Breach Notifications (by Gogga)</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Proposed Security notifications for different laws -- we should model that in DPV.</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Agreed, though there are a lot of laws in it and we should first deal with laws that are in scope of DPV first and then take a look at the rest. Also the Commission is planning changes to these obligations. I read that GDPR and NIS2 are being harmonised regarding their security incident reporting. So we should prepare with this assumption that we want a common framework.</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Agreed, let's go ahead with specific regulations and put them in DPV.</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create granular issues for security notifications</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Inversive Location concepts</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/208">Issue 208</a></strong> [Concept]: Add Non-X (X = specific location) to represent locations that are not X (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> group accepted to add these</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add Inversive/Inverted concepts to RDF/HTML</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Subjective Locations</h3>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209">Issue 209</a></strong> [Concept]: `AtX` subjective Location concepts  (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We have several groups of ubjective locations – some are in DPV. We have 3 options to resolve these – 1) keep all of them in DPV, 2) mix them with fundamental concepts in DPV like Public/Private locations and move the rest e.g. taxonomy of home, work to LOC (breaks some concepts as we move from DPV to LOC), and 3) move all of them to LOC (breaks existing DPV concepts). Option 3 would be most suitable as all concepts would be in one namespace but this also would break stuff in existing DPV uses.</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Also prefer in 1 place</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> for local locations e.g. within app – distinguish between locations that we can go to (as Places) and the other is locations that we can put things in (as Containers)</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Ringfencing e.g. within rather than outside the space</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> What do we do this distinction? can we use it to model these concepts?</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> the distinction is important e.g. for court jurisdictions</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> if person says they gave consent within app no one knows which country they were in. So there is more than just the definition which distinction of the term</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> think within came from AI training e.g. within device and data being kept on device, and CCTV monitoring only the shop as within premises</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> within device refers to virtual location (yes)</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s05"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> model it as scope of disclosure regarding whether the location is relevant to the user or not e.g. locally or it is being sent somewhere online</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> to georg and julian - what do we note for concepts like within device</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> we should model this thoroughly alongside context for location</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Agreed</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Arrange a separate session on Location with Georg and Julian</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Datasheets and Model Cards</h3>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/94">Issue 94</a></strong> Represent Datasheets and Model Cards with DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Working on these to identify information and concepts. Some are outside the scope of the DPVCG so far and am trying to find other vocabs that could cover this e.g. metrics. For remaining concepts to be proposed, most important / different is the notion of use-cases to describe scenarios which can be stuff like intended uses or forseeable misuses. Rather than creating many different concepts trying to represent these, having an usecase as a concept makes it simple to describe what is being represented. Will share an email around this. The rest of the proposed concepts are relatively easier to understand and fit within the existing DPV taxonomies.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to share proposal on modelling Use Cases</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>AI cards</h3>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/281">Issue 281</a></strong> Represent AI Cards with DPV (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s06"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> propose adding AI cards as a form of technical documentation for AI. We already have concepts from AIRO and VAIR with which the AI cards were developed. These would go in the AI extension as they are generic for use with any AI, though they were built specifically with AI Act in mind. It complements other approaches like Datasheets and Model Cards.</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> we're trying to implement and code this in Signatu (sharing screen to demonstrate)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>AI Act Risk Levels</h3>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/231">Issue 231</a></strong> Represent Risk Level classifications for AI/Systems in AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s06"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> To go with AI Act specific terminology. Commission uses limited risk but transparency required is more expressive so preferring that.</p>
<p id=x055 class=summary> conclusion of discussion: risk levels are prohibited, high risk, transparency required, minimal, and unknown. Other levels will be discussed later with examples as guidance evolves.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x057 class=summary> The next meeting will be on APR-24 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x058 class=summary> Agenda will be continuing on topics started under v2.2, and any other updates that come up.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Create granular issues for security notifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Add Inversive/Inverted concepts to RDF/HTML</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Arrange a separate session on Location with Georg and Julian</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Harsh to share proposal on modelling Use Cases</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
