<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 13 AUG 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>13 AUG 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250813T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, JulianFlake</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.2</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Beta release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Rule Fulfilment</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">Agents</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">AI Development Phases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Use-Cases and Examples</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Development code</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t09">Contribution Guidelines</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">DPVCG referenced in EU policy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Metadata Fields</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t12">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250813T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250813T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-08-13">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-08-13</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Note change in meeting link</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.2</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/301">Issue 301</a></strong> dpv 2.2 draft review (by coolharsh55)</p>
<h4 id=t02>Beta release</h4>
<p id=x016 class=summary> agreed to release a beta version as before following changes/fixes</p>
<h4 id=t03>Rule Fulfilment</h4>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/351">Issue 351</a></strong> DPV Rule Fulfilment Status - naming and alignment with ODRL (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Proposed concepts (see issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/351">#351</a>)</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> agreed</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> okay from Beatriz offline (email/github)</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> agreed on concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Agents</h3>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> (paraphrased) use of Agents to perform tasks in workflows</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> better to call it AgenticAISystem if its to be a subclass of AI System</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> how is this different from AI Agent? For an Agent, you specify some goals or response to conditions and it goes off to do the work without response from the user. For my Agentic AI is that you define goals or results but not the how to achieve that, but the user is still waiting e.g. for an hour. So there is an element for waiting for the response.</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Agentic AI involves use of AI agents to execute tools/workflows</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> so in thise sense Agentic is an adjective to the AI System to state AI agents are being used to achieve the tasks</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary> next steps: look for normative definitions, otherwise discuss only adding the basic concepts for the vocabulary without additional specifics for v2.3</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>AI Development Phases</h3>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294">Issue 294</a></strong> AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> these are not well defined/standardised as compared to the ISO 5338 lifecycle; so should we model them and how do we select the concept?</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> depends on which steps you want to take to develop the model; Should these concepts also consider whether it is a GenAI model and what are the steps to integrate that into the organisation</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> these are processes as they involve e.g. data collection  ...</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> will this include the domain or user etc. before data collection. This is like a requirement.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> This is like requirements engineering in software development. How much of the lifecycle do we want to consider, and how many names/labels we want to include for different stages. This could be useful for looking at the value chain and seeing who is involved and when/where. E.g. to see who was involved in the earlier stages and tracing what happened/who is responsible. E.g. using PROV-O.</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> sounds like the concepts are useful; so should these be done as part of existing lifecycle <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.2/ai/#vocab-lifecycle">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>2.2/<wbr>ai/#vocab-lifecycle</a> or separately?</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> makes sense to start with lifecycle and see if it fits and then look for a different place if not; this will be helpful for the data governance and implementation of the AI Act</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> reason to think about this is that the previous Biden gov executive order required documentation about stakeholders during the development of the AI requirements procedures; though this executive order is no longer around</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> option to go for a sub-extension of AI for lifecycle</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> no, because this fits in AI</p>
<p id=x042 class=summary> next steps: develop a proposal based on ISO 5338 and aligned with common terminology used in AI domain</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Use-Cases and Examples</h3>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/12">Issue 12</a></strong> Use-Cases and Examples showing how vocab can be used (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x045 class=summary> discussing making use-cases and examples being documented a necessary step for adding any new concept (continued discussion)</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s05"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> what counts as an example?</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> e.g. data collection involves purpose, data subject e.g. customer, processing collect, etc.</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s05"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> and are these external examples from another source or created here to show how the vocabulary is used?</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> the latter, these are the descriptions and examples in RDF showing in the HTML documents</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary> accepted to make use-cases and examples a requirement for all new concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Development code</h3>
<p id=x052 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/137">Issue 137</a></strong> Move code for document/minute generation to another branch (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x053 class=summary> accepted changes to repo (moving code generator to dev branch) </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t09>Contribution Guidelines</h4>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> added external contribution section to contribution guide on Wiki <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/wiki/Contribution-Guide#guidelines-for-accepting-non-authoritative-contributions">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Contribution-Guide#guidelines-for-accepting-non-authoritative-contributions</a> </p>
<h4 id=t10>DPVCG referenced in EU policy</h4>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> detected reference/mention of DPVCG from 2020--2025 in the EU's Interoperability Europe documents referring to &quot;Rolling ICT Standardisation&quot;. DPVCG is the only CG mentioned, along with ODRL as a standard. This means we are the state of the art for this topic and area! <a href="https://interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/collection/rolling-plan-ict-standardisation/rolling-plan-2025">https://<wbr>interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/<wbr>collection/<wbr>rolling-plan-ict-standardisation/<wbr>rolling-plan-2025</a> see ePrivacy (RP2025) and Data Economy (RP 2025)</p>
<h4 id=t11>Metadata Fields</h4>
<p id=x060 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/359">Issue 359</a></strong> [NEW]: Add versioning/deprecation information (by bact)</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s03"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> meta fields like <code>availableSinceVersion</code>, <code>deprecatedInVersion</code>, <code>supercededBy</code> -- if they are useful/ worth the effort to have it e.g. within the metadata of the concept in RDF and shown in HTML; superceded by is provided in schema.org</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we have had cases or risks that the concepts are deprecated and people still use it because it is present; one option </p>
<p id=x063 class=summary> next steps: Art and Harsh will discuss this for v2.3</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x065 class=summary> The next meeting will be on AUG-20 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST</p>
<p id=x066 class=summary> Agenda will be finalising DPV v2.2 beta release, and starting work on v2.3 -- with a preference to identify topics for discussion where materials/arguments exist and so that we can revist what needs to be done for them. </p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
