<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 22 OCT 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>22 OCT 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251022T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, JulianFlake, PaulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Nominating DPVCG chair</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Fixes to DPV 2.2 (as DPV 2.2.1)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV 2.2 post-release tasks</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Add a red box warning for older DPV versions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">v2.2 LOV submission</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Roadmap for Guides</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251022T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251022T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-22">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-22</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-15">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-15</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Nominating DPVCG chair</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389">Issue 389</a></strong> DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> I would like to nominate myself for the role of maintainer (not chair/co-chair).</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> A good idea would be to reply to the email Harsh sent on the chair/maintainer tasks (<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Oct/<wbr>0002.html</a>). Beatriz will do the same for the tasks she would like to take on as co-chair.</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Should the process of selecting maintainers be a separate process from the chair nomination?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 on deciding for both roles during the same window (after the waiting period until OCT-31)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Fixes to DPV 2.2 (as DPV 2.2.1)</h3>
<p id=x021 class=summary> broken links in search page, missing info on deprecated concepts, potentially missing OWL files; tentative date OCT-31</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV 2.2 post-release tasks</h3>
<p id=x023 class=summary> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>7</a></p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> some tasks will not be completed now ( see LOV issue below)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Add a red box warning for older DPV versions</h3>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/396">Issue 396</a></strong> Add a red box warning for older DPV versions (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> This will point people to the latest version and tell this this version is outdated. See example <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/2013/PR-prov-o-20130312/.">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>2013/<wbr>PR-prov-o-20130312/.</a> We initiate this procedure as part of release process where all past versions get this box.</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access</h3>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> Harsh initial simplification proposal at <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>dpv-simplification/<wbr>dpv.html</a></p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>v2.2 LOV submission</h3>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> This is a good practice for ontology evaluation, e.g., FOOPS etc.</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> DPV 2.2 core is already in LOV, however there is not an easy solution to submit all the extensions that we have, without haing to do it all manually. So we are thinking together with the LOV maintainers how to automate this process, also for the sake of doing it for future versions.</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> I will discuss this with one of the LOV maintainers in the first week of December</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> is there an alternative to LOV that we can/should publish to? and in a more automated way?</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> I actually want to make a submission to LOV for another project: <a href="https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1272">spdx/<wbr>spdx-spec#1272</a> . Love to hear that it is sort of active (by volunteers)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Roadmap for Guides</h3>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/242">Issue 242</a></strong> Provide Guides for Supporting Adoption & Use of DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Priority is to finish off some of the currently proposed guides by the release of 2.3</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> see current issues for guides: <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20guide">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20guide</a></p>
<p id=x050 class=summary> DPIA - A paper can be adapted - &quot;A Semantic Specification for Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA)&quot; <a href="https://doi.org/10.3233/SSW220007">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.3233/<wbr>SSW220007</a></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s04"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> Perhaps Delaram and Tytti will have interest in collaborating for this one.</p>
<p id=x052 class=summary> ROPA - Paul's PhD work can be adapted here, DPCat specification using DCAT should be discussed separately. The guide will focus on showing which concepts from DPV are useful for which ROPA field. This will be aligned with implementation of the ISO/IEC 27560 revision (which as PII Processing Records and Privacy Receipts instead of just for consent)</p>
<p id=x053 class=summary> 29184 Privacy Notices - Harsh has a working draft <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/guides/notice-29184/">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>guides/<wbr>notice-29184/</a> based on consent guide</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 to add it on the next release</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Is there documentation on how it relates to ISO 27560 on consent records?</p>
<p id=x056 class=summary> Data Breach - A paper can be adapted - &quot;Towards a Semantic Specification for GDPR Data Breach Reporting&quot;  <a href="https://doi.org/10.3233/FAIA230956">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.3233/<wbr>FAIA230956</a> </p>
<p id=x057 class=summary> Rights Exercise - A paper can be adapted - &quot;How to Manage My Data? With Machine--Interpretable GDPR Rights!&quot; <a href="https://doi.org/10.3233/FAIA241254">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.3233/<wbr>FAIA241254</a> </p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> I would like to improve the current draft guide by DEC</p>
<p id=x059 class=summary> Risk Assessment - needs to be written from scratch, Harsh can do this quickly as he has written most of the RISK extension content</p>
<p id=x060 class=summary> ODRL - <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/guides/dpv-odrl">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>guides/<wbr>dpv-odrl</a> has a draft mapping table but is missing a github issue (Beatriz to check with ODRL CG on how to implement this correctly?)</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> seems doable by 2.3, I have already shared the current state with ODRL CG and have feedback to improve it.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x063 class=summary> The next meeting will be on OCT-29 Wednesday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST</p>
<p id=x064 class=summary> Agenda for next meeting will be continuing discussion on topics started for v2.3 and any other updates/new proposed topics.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
