<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 08 OCT 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>08 OCT 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251008T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>arthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, julianFlake, julioHernandez, maryam, paulRyan, stratisKoulierakis, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgKrog, HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Nominating DPVCG chair</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">ServiceManagement (purpose)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Purpose Compatibility for GDPR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Proportionality for GDPR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">CRDM concepts (EU Publications Office AI Taxonomy)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">LEGAL DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AI Agent</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Plan for additional concepts from EHDS, AI Act, NIS2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Proposal from Georg to map ISO/IEC 42005 AI System Impact Assessment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Proposal from Beatriz to map EU Unfair Consumer Directive</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251008T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251008T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-08">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-08</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-01">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-01</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Nominating DPVCG chair</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389">Issue 389</a></strong> DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>If you are interested in nominating yourself, please do so as soon as possible so there is sufficient awareness and discussion before we make a decision after OCT-31.</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Nomination from Beatriz <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Oct/<wbr>0000.html</a></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 from Harsh for a co-chair, though the responsibilities should be further clearly defined along with distribution across the two chairs. Harsh is okay to act as 'representative' of DPVCG to other forums, e.g. within ISO, IEEE, CEN and to participate in W3C work, and in general be an evangelist for DPV. This does not necessarily require Harsh to be the chair though. There is a high chance that we will petition to establish a working group based on DPV towards eventual standardisation in W3C. Harsh said he will share a detailed list of tasks he currently works with to help with this discussion.</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 for co-chairing; call for more people to volunteer for specific areas/responsibilities if they want to   </p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1 for co-chairing and having beatriz and harsh as co-chairs</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>ServiceManagement (purpose)</h3>
<p id=x022 class=summary> (was ServiceMaintainence in earlier minutes)</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> agreement in last meeting, to confirm okay to go ahead, breaking change</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287">Issue 287</a></strong> [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> In the last meeting, we agreed to have Service Management as the top level concept and within it to restructure the hierarchy for Provision, Maintenance, etc. Currently some of these concepts are placed under ServiceProvision. This means we are introducing a breaking change. The rationale is to keep the hierarchy consistent such that different purposes can have different legal bases, which is currently not implemented well. A note will be added explaining this to the Purposes dedicated guidance page.</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>all:</cite> go ahead</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Purpose Compatibility for GDPR</h3>
<p id=x028 class=summary> agreement in last meeting, to confirm okay to go ahead, breaking change</p>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298">Issue 298</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>all:</cite> go ahead</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Proportionality for GDPR</h3>
<p id=x032 class=summary> to agree on concepts, updated proposal from Stratis and Harsh - see issue</p>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386">Issue 386</a></strong> Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> In previous weeks we have discussed this and Harsh has informed me that along with Georg (earlier in DPVCG) and Stratis (recently) these concepts have a clear proposal and need. The concepts are proposed in the issue and there is consensus amongst people who have been working on it. </p>
<p id=x035 class=summary> concepts are: <code>ProportionalityAssessment</code> and <code>NecessityAssessment</code>, and <code>ProportionalityStatus</code> with instances <code>Proportionate</code> and <code>Disproportionate</code>; there will be links to formal guidance in the HTML documentation for these</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>all:</cite> Go ahead, these concepts should be integrated</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s04"><cite>stratisKoulierakis:</cite> working on documentation on how to use the terms with Harsh</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>CRDM concepts (EU Publications Office AI Taxonomy)</h3>
<p id=x039 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> Harsh already mapped out concepts; Delaram has a document with analysis (<a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H3nSZ6Z4GL5ZdaVKrH2\_oZPc8dsRvNg-MiiosZE-qAOo/edit?gid=1828366854\#gid=1828366854">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1H3nSZ6Z4GL5ZdaVKrH2\_oZPc8dsRvNg-MiiosZE-qAOo/<wbr>edit?gid=1828366854\#gid=1828366854</a>); Harsh and Delaram to sit down and align concepts and how to integrate them on DPV extensions</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>LEGAL DE-GDNG</h3>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s05"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> already started mapping out concepts; currently discussing which ones are necessary; looking for use cases where these concepts are necessary to inspire the collection of terms; focus on identifying entities and processing operations at the moment</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> at least for now keeping labels in English will help to comment and discuss the usefulness of the proposed concepts</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s06"><cite>maryam:</cite> working with the personal data taxonomy in a multilingual context and would be useful to know how the process goes for this particular type of concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>AI Agent</h3>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">Issue 197</a></strong> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> core concepts are <code>dpv:Agent</code> and <code>dpv:LegalAgent</code>, and then <code>dpv:Representative</code> will be a type of legal agent, and we will have <code>tech:MachineAgent</code> which will be further specified as <code>tech:UserAgent</code> and <code>ai:AIAgent</code>. The focus here is to provide the vocabulary for these concepts.</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s03"><cite>All:</cite> core concepts are accepted</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Plan for additional concepts from EHDS, AI Act, NIS2</h3>
<p id=x051 class=summary> we established a plan of action last week, see previous minutes. If anyone is interested, please register the interest here or github or mailing list etc. We will start dedicated meetings for these with the registered participants and use these meetings to report back findings and make decisions.</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> EHDS - will work on it with Georg during October</p>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> AI Act &amp; NIS2 - no concrete plan yet on the topics that will be tackled; so probably it will not be for the next DPV release, but the current topics being explored continue the work around risk assessment</p>
<p id=x055 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Proposal from Georg to map ISO/IEC 42005 AI System Impact Assessment</h3>
<p id=x058 class=summary> <a href="https://www.iso.org/standard/44545.html">https://<wbr>www.iso.org/<wbr>standard/<wbr>44545.html</a> -- to discuss if this is in scope (to be justified by Georg as the proposer)</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> This standard provides concepts that are relevant to the impact assessments associated with AI, and therefore will be useful in DPIA, FRIA, etc. Harsh has indicated support for including this work, and Georg already has mapped many concepts to check feasibility and utility.</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1; wants to look into it; challenge: how to align these with AI Act; how to align with other impact assessments, e.g., DPIA</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> if concepts already exist or should be mapped into existing extensions, then work can be only on a guidance document</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> how to decide if they are in scope; when there will be a decision by the EC on the harmonised standards it will help to decide on this</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s07"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we can have extensions for each standard in a different namespace, i.e., dpv/standards/iso/xxxx, as we have done for P7012; or we can align several standards in the same extension</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s07"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> not in scope of the group to align regulations or standards, common concepts can be on a common spec as we have the main DPV spec (clarification: we are not the authority to do this, so we are providing concepts that show the relation but offer no legal interpretation, e.g., Impact assessment in core DPV to identify related impact assessments in different laws and then how they are related - this will be original research) (but in general support Delaram's call for caution)</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s07"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> +1 to work on it as companies are being incentivized to use standards; nice check for completeness and usefulness of DPV in general</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Proposal from Beatriz to map EU Unfair Consumer Directive</h3>
<p id=x067 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/392">Issue 392</a></strong> Extension for the Unfair Contract Terms Directive (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Harsh has indicated support for this while noting that consumer protection is distinct from data protection in EU legal framework. If the scope of this work will be about how consumer protection can help with privacy and data protection, then that fits DPVCG very well. For example, consent is also a consumer protection issue, as are contracts that ask for data sharing. This has overlaps with work in P7012 for example. And there is also the new proposal for the Digital Fairness Act which supports this interpretation.</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> There will be a research project on the unfair consumer directive in Ghent. So there is a need to use this both in ODRL and in DPV. Should this be in scope for DPV? Previous work on providing an ODRL profile for this is available at <a href="https://isa-group.github.io/tosl/">https://<wbr>isa-group.github.io/<wbr>tosl/</a></p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s07"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> there's risks, harms, roles, and other concepts related to impact assessments that can be modelled; requirements related to the modelling of providers and consumers can also be of interest</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x072 class=summary> The next meeting will be on OCT-15 Wednesday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST</p>
<p id=x073 class=summary> Agenda for next meeting will be continuing discussion on topics started for v2.3 and any other updates/new proposed topics.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
