<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 19 JUN 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>19 JUN 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250619T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit, JulioHernandez, MarkLizar, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, JulianFlake</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.2 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">W3C TPAC</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Rules</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">Rules ⟵ Use-Cases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Acceptable Use</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">AI Act Intended Purpose</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t07">Secondary Use</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Operating Factors / Environment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t10">TAIR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">DPIA</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">MLDCAT-AP</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t13">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250619T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250619T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-06-19">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-06-19</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.2 release</h3>
<p id=x013 class=summary> agreed to finalise in June, publish in July after commenting period</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> set schedule to finalise in June, release in July (v2.2); then next one is finalise in December and release in January (v2.3), and this will be our regular release schedule</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> finalise v2.2 draft release</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>W3C TPAC</h3>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The W3C TPAC is being scheduled. Should the DPVCG have a session during the community group portion? Typically, it costs to attend the W3C TPAC. In previous years we have done a virtual session which aligned with the event but outside of it, this was a combined session with ODRL CG. Attendance was poor.</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> yes we should have it as a virtual event (+6 from people)</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> Is ODRL CG having a meeting? Do we want to collab with them like previous years? </p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh will check with Victor (ODRL CG chair)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Rules</h3>
<h4 id=t04>Rules ⟵ Use-Cases</h4>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284">Issue 284</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> continued discussion</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> previous discussion: issue with &quot;Use-Case&quot; as a term as it implies users, interactions, etc. based on its use in software/systems engineering domains; we discussed alternatives such as scenario, policy, etc.</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> as discussed in previous meeting, we want concepts to represent or indicate something is [acceptable, unacceptable, permitted, prohibited, recommended, deterred] and separately it is [intended]; to represent this, we discussed over several meetings alternatives, and the current proposal is as follows.</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Reuse existing Rules concepts rather than creating new ones such as use-cases or uses which lead to ambiguity; <br>
<span id=x029>… the rule taxonomy would be as follows with parent <code>dpv:Rule</code> and relation <code>dpv:hasRule</code> based on keywords from RFC2119</span></p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> <code>dpv:AcceptableRule</code> (new) (no property) with subclass <code>dpv:Permission</code> (exists) <code>dpv:hasPermission</code> corresponding with RFC2119 keyword MAY with subclass <code>dpv:Obligation</code> (exists) <code>dpv:hasObligation</code> corresponding with RFC2119 keyword MUST ; and with subclass of acceptable as <code>dpv:Recommendation</code> (new) <code>dpv:hasRecommendation</code>) corresponding with RFC2119 keyword SHOULD </p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> <code>dpv:UnacceptableRule</code> (new) (no property) with subclass <code>dpv:Deterrence</code> (new) <code>dpv:hasDeterrence</code> (note: deterrence has multiple meanings, we are using it as &quot;to turn aside, discourage, or prevent from acting&quot; – Merriam-Webster corresponding with RFC2119 keyword SHOULD NOT); with subclass <code>dpv:Prohibition</code> (exists) <code>dpv:hasProhibition</code> corresponding with RFC2119 keyword MUST NOT </p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> previously Julian enquired whether we have a concept to model MAY NOT, and the argument was that it is the same as MAY i.e. it does not change the action. However, the concept <code>dpv:Tolerated</code> with <code>dpv:hasTolerance</code> was indicated to indicate something may not happen i.e. there is a tolerance regarding it, it has not been added to this list due to not being normative</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add new Rules</p>
<h4 id=t05>Acceptable Use</h4>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The goal of these concepts is to assist with modelling/representing cases where specific actions have to be indicated as being allowed / recommended etc. To model these, we propose two concepts based on common terminology with parent the existing <code>dpv:Policy</code> and <code>dpv:hasPolicy</code> as <code>dpv:AcceptableUsePolicy</code> and <code>dpv:hasAcceptableUsePolicy</code> and <code>dpv:UnacceptableUsePolicy</code> and <code>dpv:hasUncceptableUsePolicy</code> These policies will then contain details, including any rules (obligations, prohibitions, recommendations, etc.) and can be attached to specific products, services, technologies, etc.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> haven't come across <code>UnacceptableUsePolicy</code> as a term – is not used in practice (is there a need? is there an alternative for this?)</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> agreed, modelled this to represent unacceptable uses section, but let's keep it proposed for the moment until there is certainty</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> @beatriz is this compatible with ODRL?</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> yes, this is compatible, except in ODRL the obligation is called duty concept, but the meaning is the same</p>
<p id=x040 class=summary> Agreed on above, except for UnacceptableUsePolicy to be kept as proposed, and not adding Tolerated (MAY NOT)</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add Acceptable Use Policy</p>
<h4 id=t06>AI Act Intended Purpose</h4>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> To model the intent as required for AI Act's Intended Purpose, the existing concept of <code>tech:IntendedUse</code> should be kept, and AI Act's eu-aiact:IntendedPurpose should be extended from it (currently it is not)</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> Agree to model intended use (as it exists) and make the AI Act's concept as a specialised form of it; and for the regulation specific concepts e.g. for GDPR and AI Act, we add a note saying we are exploring how to model these in future releases e.g. Purpose Compatibility and its outcomes (see reuse concepts)</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Modify AI Act Intended Purpose concept</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Secondary Use</h3>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283">Issue 283</a></strong> [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> confirming the below to be added to v2.2</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> add <code>dpv:ReuseCompatibility</code> with <code>dpv:hasReuseCompatibility</code> with <code>dpv:PrimaryUse</code> – use is as per the primary context/goal; <code>dpv:PrimaryInitialUse</code> - use defines the initial or first primary use and is the basis for future comparisons of compatibility; <code>dpv:PrimaryCompatibleReuse</code> - use has a different context but is compatible with the primary initial use; <code>dpv:SecondaryUse</code> - use is not compatible with the primary use</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Question: do we add the regulatory concepts for GDPR and AI Act and EHDS now or do we add with guidance later in v2.3?</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> compatibility from whose perspective, use-case cenetered around humans, … (Discussion, ref to HUMAN extension)</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> EHDS use for these concepts / structure</p>
<p id=x053 class=summary> Agree to add these concepts to 2.2, with regulation specific concepts being added to 2.3 based on requirements and interpretations (add note about this in 2.2 docs)</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add reuse concepts to v2.2 with a note on what's coming for v2.3</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Operating Factors / Environment</h3>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285">Issue 285</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x057 class=summary> confirming the below for v2.2</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> add <code>tech:OperatingFactor</code> and <code>tech:hasOperatingFactor</code> and add <code>tech:OperatingEnvironment</code> and <code>tech:hasOperatingEnvironment</code> ; will support specifying product/service uses and considerations e.g. what works, what is required, etc.</p>
<p id=x059 class=summary> Agree to add these to 2.2 with note on why these concepts exist/why they are helpful, what can be factor, what can be environment and so on (and that we're exploring modelling these in detail in future releases)</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add operating factor and environment concept for v2.2 with note</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Updates</h3>
<h4 id=t10>TAIR</h4>
<p id=x063 class="phone s05"><cite>JulioHernandez:</cite> mapped TAIR with AI Act extension, will share when done</p>
<h4 id=t11>DPIA</h4>
<p id=x065 class="phone s06"><cite>TyttiRintamaki:</cite> submitted proposal on Github with concepts categorised based on extension</p>
<h4 id=t12>MLDCAT-AP</h4>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> <a href="https://semiceu.github.io/MLDCAT-AP/releases/2.1.0/">https://<wbr>semiceu.github.io/<wbr>MLDCAT-AP/<wbr>releases/<wbr>2.1.0/</a> uses dpv hasData property (issues with documentation, and use of concepts are not ideal or complete based on what we already have in DPV e.g. see RISK – see github issues about this)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x069 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JUN-26 Thursday <code>13:30WET</code>/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x070 class=summary> Agenda will be finalising DPV v2.2 scope and release, and starting work on v2.3</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">finalise v2.2 draft release</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Harsh will check with Victor (ODRL CG chair)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Add new Rules</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Add Acceptable Use Policy</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Modify AI Act Intended Purpose concept</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Add reuse concepts to v2.2 with a note on what's coming for v2.3</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Add operating factor and environment concept for v2.2 with note</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
