<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 15 MAY 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>15 MAY 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250515T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulioHernandez, MarkLizar, PaulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Representing Use-Cases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Operating Factors / Environment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Secondary Use</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">GDPR revision proposed</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">TCF ruling</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">NXDG workshop</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">New complaint</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250515T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250515T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-05-15">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-05-15</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Representing Use-Cases</h3>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284">Issue 284</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> continued discussion</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> discussed <code>UseCase</code> as a concept to be added to DPV</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> +1 from Paul and Julio</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> Next week to decide on categories of use-cases</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Operating Factors / Environment</h3>
<p id=x019 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285">Issue 285</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> discussed this, decision next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Secondary Use</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283">Issue 283</a></strong> [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> discussed compatibility as a concept in GDPR, AI Act, and EHDS</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Should there be compatibility for purposes, we were thinking of a property to state compatibility with purpose</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Good idea, we should have the property <code>isCompatibleWith</code> and <code>isIncompatibleWith</code>, but these should work at the use-case or process level as the test of compatibility can involve many things</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> How would this compatibility be determined?</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> compatibility is specific to the use-case or framework e.g. in GDPR we have purpose compatibility which is purposes, but also invovles data categories, recipients, legal basis, etc.</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> How would this work with policy checking?</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> you have a test for checking compatibility, and then when comparing the two policies you check whether it is compatible or not, and these concepts are the outputs</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> note for policies we need fixable and non-fixable compatibility so we know what can be resolved</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Where in GDPR would this be useful?</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> e.g. to model scenarios during DPIA. GDPR already has a structure for describing use-cases which is Art.30 ROPA records which gives indication of what information is present in such an use-case</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t05>GDPR revision proposed</h4>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> proposal from EU Commission on diluting ROPA requirements for GDPR, some specific wording of concern on special categories.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Not sure about the usefulness of these as these concepts are already required for fulfilling other obligations which are still present</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s04"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> Agree, these are needed for rights and transparency</p>
<h4 id=t06>TCF ruling</h4>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Court ruling on IAB and TCF declaring it illegal <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/posts/johnnyryan1_eu-ruling-tracking-based-advertising-by-activity-7328492374689550336-yYWD">https://<wbr>www.linkedin.com/<wbr>posts/<wbr>johnnyryan1_eu-ruling-tracking-based-advertising-by-activity-7328492374689550336-yYWD</a></p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> congrats to Johnny and ICCL</p>
<h4 id=t07>NXDG workshop</h4>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> CFP for NXDG workshop -- <a href="https://nxdg-workshop.github.io/2025/">https://<wbr>nxdg-workshop.github.io/<wbr>2025/</a> NXDG deadline is JUN-14</p>
<h4 id=t08>New complaint</h4>
<p id=x044 class="phone s05"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> complaint filed against Google Chrome <a href="https://www.globalprivacyrights.org/quebec-law-25-collective-google-chrome-complaint-45">https://<wbr>www.globalprivacyrights.org/<wbr>quebec-law-25-collective-google-chrome-complaint-45</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x046 class=summary> The next meeting will be on MAY-22 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> Agenda will be EHDS concepts led by Georg, and continued discussions from today on use-case categories, operating factors, and secondary use concepts</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
