<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 05 JUN 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>05 JUN 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250605T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, MarkLizar, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, IainHenderson</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Representing Use-Cases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Operating Factors / Environment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Secondary Use</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">DPV 2.2 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250605T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250605T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-06-05">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-06-05</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Representing Use-Cases</h3>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284">Issue 284</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> continued discussion</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> focus on whether this is 'ready' for DPV v2.2</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> there is relevance from recommended use case to ai act</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> usecase as a concept in software engineering means something else, scenario is also a concept, what are we trying to model here?</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>Delaram:</cite> JRC has a paper on usecase cards (for AI documentation) <a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-024-09757-7">https://<wbr>link.springer.com/<wbr>article/<wbr>10.1007/<wbr>s10676-024-09757-7</a> </p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> Question on what should we call this: does this fit the definition of use-case coming from the software/systems engineering domains? Issue with &quot;Use&quot; as it is already in DPV processing taxonomy courtesy GDPR Art.4(2)</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> List of potential concepts discussed / mentioned: Scenario, Case study, Case scenario, Use policy, Usage terms, Utilization, Usage, Application, Instance</p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> Further list for votes (not voting took place): core concept -- use policy, usage policy, something else (mention here what); prefix <em> suffix -- acceptable use </em> intended use, acceptable use policy <em> intended use policy, acceptable usage </em> intended usage, acceptable usage policy / intended usage policy, something else (mention here what) </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Operating Factors / Environment</h3>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285">Issue 285</a></strong> [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> discussed this, agreed to put Operating Factor and Environment in DPV 2.2 as general concepts in TECH extension but to futher discuss specialised categories</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Secondary Use</h3>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283">Issue 283</a></strong> [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> discussed this, agreed to put core and normative concepts in DPV 2.2, and discuss others further. Here normative concepts are Primary and Secondary use, others such as <code>PrimaryInitialUse</code> and <code>PrimaryCompatibleReuse</code> are based on legal uses and are not normative, whereas others like <code>TertiaryUse</code> is DPVCG specific. The EHDS extension will contain <code>SecondaryUse</code> as a concept extending from these.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>DPV 2.2 release</h3>
<p id=x029 class=summary> discussed and agreed to release v2.2 with what we have as a draft release end of June and final release in July. Remaining items are moved to v2.3 milestone.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>AOB</h3>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> P7012 work is ongoing, there may be additional requirements to support it -- Iain will share where relevant</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s05"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Primer needs to be updated with the new concepts</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s06"><cite>JulioHernandez:</cite> description of TAIR <a href="https://tair.adaptcentre.ie/">https://<wbr>tair.adaptcentre.ie/</a> through which we will be proposing concepts for AI and AI-Act extension, plan to submit it in two weeks</p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> post-meeting discussion with Julian Flake: Suggestions for next week as voting counter seems to not work for some people, share your screen so people see where we are and what we are doing, find some other way to get engagement e.g. thumbs up emoji on Zoom and then count them manually or ask people to put +1s in the text, people may want to write in the document async â€“ so encourage that</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x036 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JUN-12 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x037 class=summary> Agenda will be EHDS concepts led by Georg, and continued discussions from today on use-case categories, operating factors, and secondary use concepts</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
