<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 24 SEP 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>24 SEP 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250924T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, MaryamMohammadi, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.2 published</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Nominating Chair</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Generic Places</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Purpose Compatibility for GDPR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Proportionality for GDPR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">CRDM AI taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">LEGAL DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t09">Submit v2.2 to LOV</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t10">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250924T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20250924T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-09-24">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-09-24</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-09-17">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-09-17</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.2 published</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary> v2.2 has been published! -- <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0004.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0004.html</a> (mandatory üçïüç∫ celebration)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Nominating Chair</h3>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389">Issue 389</a></strong> DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Call for nominating DPVCG chair <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0005.html</a> (tracking issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389)">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>issues/<wbr>389)</a></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> I suggest this be similar to ODRL CG which has several co-chairs so that different expertises can be utilised</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> yes that is possible - its option 3 in the email</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> suggest discussions going on until OCT-31 and we take a decision in the next meeting</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Generic Places</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/384">Issue 384</a></strong> Modelling Generic Locations/Places (e.g. Airport, School) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Christian mentioned in the last meeting that there must be a vocabulary for such concepts; and then whether these are public/private</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> There are existing vocabularies e.g. <a href="https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/terms?q=airport">https://<wbr>lov.linkeddata.es/<wbr>dataset/<wbr>lov/<wbr>terms?q=airport</a> </p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Also where to draw the line the line in terms of granularity? E.g. different kinds of airports, underground stations and such</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> propose to keep issue open to collect concepts from normative sources and also other vocabularies that exist; once we have sufficient concepts we can discuss further</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Do what we have is sufficient for AI Act high-risk and prohibited cases?</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> We have workplace and public places so it depends on how detailed we want to be. Guidelines on Prohibited published by the Commision <a href="https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/commission-publishes-guidelines-prohibited-artificial-intelligence-ai-practices-defined-ai-act">https://<wbr>digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/<wbr>en/<wbr>library/<wbr>commission-publishes-guidelines-prohibited-artificial-intelligence-ai-practices-defined-ai-act</a>  (so this is normative)</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> thanks, this is a good source to find place concepts</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> Commission will be publishing further guidelines on AI Act in two parts <a href="https://www.mlex.com/mlex/articles/2391196/eu-commission-splits-ai-act-s-guidelines-on-high-risk-systems">https://<wbr>www.mlex.com/<wbr>mlex/<wbr>articles/<wbr>2391196/<wbr>eu-commission-splits-ai-act-s-guidelines-on-high-risk-systems</a> - with clarification obligations and risk management etc. Don't know what happens after this due to the Draghi report and stop the clock etc.</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> the issue will be kept open to collect concepts and use-cases - in particular from authoritative sources like the prohibited systems guideline for AI Act, at the same time we will identify whether there are other vocabularies such as those in LOV that can represented these concepts; if not - then the discussion will be whether to provide these via DPV</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> - Service Maintainence (purpose) <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287">w3c/<wbr>dpv#287</a></p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> this was a use-case related to AI Act / IoT data. We wanted to use policy with a purpose about maintaining services and products.</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> <code>ServiceManagement</code> is proposed as the top concept similar to other <code>Management</code> concepts, and then within this we have <code>ServiceMaintainence</code> and <code>ServiceProvision</code>. What needs to be discussed is what should be the hierarchy as currently we have put all service related concepts under <code>ServiceProvision</code>. This was because at the time, we were thinking that what should be expected as part of service provision. </p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Do definitions exist for these new concepts?</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Yes (explanation of concepts)</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> This will be a breaking change (for parents changed), so better check with people e.g. Georg who implement this</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s05"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The reason for separation is the possibility that there are different legal bases e.g. <code>ServiceProvision</code> is as per the contract, however <code>ServicePersonalisation</code> can be based on legitimate interest or consent, and <code>ServiceMonitoring</code> can be part of a legal obligation. So if there is a hierarchy of purposes and it would be good to keep the purposes distinct to reflect and support such distinctions.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s05"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> Agree, this is how it works for cookies, so this is a valid point</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> we agree on <code>ServiceManagement</code> and <code>ServiceMaintainence</code> as concepts but need to confirm the hierarchy</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Purpose Compatibility for GDPR</h3>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298">Issue 298</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> so is the idea that we take two purposes and then state whether they are compatible? (yes) Do we have a use case for this?</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> yes, for example if you have obtained consent for purpose A, and now you want to use that data for purpose B, then you must assess and ensure that A is compatible with B. If not, then you must either ask for consent again or look for a different legal basis. This assessment is what is represented in this concept, and the outcomes are the instances.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> for reference, ICO page on compatible and incompatible purposes <a href="https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/data-protection-principles/a-guide-to-the-data-protection-principles/purpose-limitation">https://<wbr>ico.org.uk/<wbr>for-organisations/<wbr>uk-gdpr-guidance-and-resources/<wbr>data-protection-principles/<wbr>a-guide-to-the-data-protection-principles/<wbr>purpose-limitation</a> </p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> agree this is necessary, but thinking of how to use this process</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Using ODRL, Policy A exists and you want to check if policy B should be accepted or not. For this, you check the purpose compatibility and then record that B was accepted because <code>PurposeCompatible</code> or rejected because <code>PurposeIncompatible</code>. When modelling purpose constraints, you want to assert that they must be compatible -- whereas in an assessment you are checking whether two purposes are compatible. So you can note that in a contraint that the purposes must satisfy and give <code>PurposeCompatible</code> as outcome.</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Have to think about this</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> (we are only declaring there is an assessment and there are two outcomes possible - compatible and incompatible)</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary> to be continued next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Proportionality for GDPR</h3>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386">Issue 386</a></strong> Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x054 class=summary> to be continued next week</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Review GDPR Proportionality by Georg and Stratis</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>CRDM AI taxonomy</h3>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x058 class=summary> mapping is available - see issue ; to be discussed next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>LEGAL DE-GDNG</h3>
<p id=x060 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> meeting scheduled for this/next week, so will report back</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t09>Submit v2.2 to LOV</h4>
<p id=x064 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Should we discuss how to submit to LOV? (yes)</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Beatriz and Harsh to work on submitting DPV v2.2 to LOV</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x068 class=summary> The next meeting will be on OCT-01 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST</p>
<p id=x069 class=summary> Agenda will be continuation of today's discussion regarding service maintainence, purpose compatibility, and proportionality/necessity, DPV 2.2 submissions, and additional items from v2.3 milestone.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Review GDPR Proportionality by Georg and Stratis</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Beatriz and Harsh to work on submitting DPV v2.2 to LOV</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
