<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 04 FEB 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>04 FEB 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260204T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AjayJadhav, ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, ElenaMolino, FabianLinde, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, MarlinUdoKisia, RuhiAnandFinn, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>GabrielaKurteva</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admins</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Submit to LOV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV v2.3 release schedule</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">EU EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">IEEE 7012 / MyTerms</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AI</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">GDPR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Usability</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Misc. fixes</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">Location</a></li>
<li><a href="#t13">Purposes</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">Standards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t15">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t16">ETSI AI standards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t17">India's DPDP</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t18">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260204T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20260204T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-04">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-02-04</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-28">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-01-28</a></p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>FabianLinde:</cite> doing a PhD at UPM (Madrid), part of the HARNESS project, visiting researcher at TCD with Harsh</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admins</h3>
<h4 id=t02>Submit to LOV</h4>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Spreadsheet to be generated for this release (de-gdng and ieee-7012 are new extensions)</p>
<h4 id=t03>DPV v2.3 release schedule</h4>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> delay in schedule, we are still finalising the concepts and content for EHDS, AI Act, and standards; also the reviews are yet to be made for GDPR, 7012 -- so we will plan to wrap these up today and this week, and have the draft be ready next week</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> v2.3 milestone on github has list of tasks <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/9">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>9</a></p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> also created milestone for v2.4 <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/10">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>10</a> with tasks for the next release; we will have a big push on documentation and also a large number of concepts being prepared for the regulations. Tentative draft ready in June, and release in July.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>EU EHDS</h3>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/299">Issue 299</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for EHDS (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> for concepts, keep DataHolder in SECTOR-HEALTH, and then in EHDS keep HealthDataHolder as it appears in the law</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> agree for GDNG; also for GDNG we have German and English terms, labels and definitions so this is also helpful and is incorporated in to the PR </p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> still making changes on the proposed concepts, aiming to finish today or tomorrow</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> Meeting on this FRI 16:00 CET </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>DE-GDNG</h3>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> ready to be integrated; Christian has also joined the group as a member of the DPVCG which takes care of the contribution issues; they have additional concepts from other members â€“ is it necessary for them to be members?</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> no, but if they want regular contribution and participation then its sensible to have them join the group</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> Julian will confirm with Christian and colleagues, and will update the PR for adding this to 2.3</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> add Secondary Use to SECTOR-HEALTH by extending the DPV concept</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>IEEE 7012 / MyTerms</h3>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/413">Issue 413</a></strong> Ensure P7012 concepts extend core DPV concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x037 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/423">Issue 423</a></strong> Change `P7012` to `IEEE 7012` (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Changed the name, title, label, concepts from &quot;P7012&quot; to &quot;7012&quot; which is the correct terminology for published IEEE standards. Also had to change the namespace and iri, which is now <code>standards/ieee/7012</code>.</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> do we also put the ODRL agreements here, will need changes</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> yes</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> also include GDPR agreements?</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> no</p>
<p id=x043 class=summary> to be discussed by Beatriz and Harsh</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add ODRL agreements for 7012 - Beatriz and Harsh</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Make w3id changes for 7012</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>AI</h3>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Added concepts from the CRDM AI Taxonomy by Publications Office of EU. For the EIT concepts, they are still pending as they do not have definitions. To be reviewed by Delaram.</p>
<p id=x050 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">Issue 197</a></strong> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Added Agent and Legal Agent concepts.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Review AI concepts - Delaram</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>AI Act</h3>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/300">Issue 300</a></strong> Model Intended Purpose Compatibility statuses for AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x055 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294">Issue 294</a></strong> AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>GDPR</h3>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386">Issue 386</a></strong> Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x058 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298">Issue 298</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> review EU-GDPR updates with Stratis, Georg (and Ruhi (new))</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s05"><cite>StratisKoulierakis:</cite> will review by Friday morning</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Review GDPR concepts - Stratis, Georg, Ruhi</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> additional item proposed - Guidance on implementation of CARPA GDPR certification as a demonstration of DPV's utility (Stratis, Harsh) for v2.4</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Usability</h3>
<p id=x064 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> simplified view <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.3-dev/dpv/">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>2.3-dev/<wbr>dpv/</a> ; issues with redirecting hashtag identifiers / fragments to module so have provided an index of concepts</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> could be we make module-wise lists and only expand those as needed for the concept needed</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we can have collapsible summary elements but would need extensive testing to make sure it works elsewhere</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Explore how to reduce the size of the DPV spec vocabulary index</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>Misc. fixes</h3>
<p id=x070 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/420">Issue 420</a></strong> [FIX]: DPV logo broken in 404 page (by bact)</p>
<p id=x071 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/411">Issue 411</a></strong> Add contributor acknowledgements (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x072 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/405">Issue 405</a></strong> [FIX]: Font size in index and 404 pages is probably too small (by bact)</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> to be reviewed by Art</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>Location</h3>
<p id=x075 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341">Issue 341</a></strong> Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x076 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342">Issue 342</a></strong> Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> these will be added to PD and TECH, to be reviewed by Julian</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add Location concepts to PD and TECH with guidance</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Review Location concepts - Julian</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>Purposes</h3>
<p id=x081 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287">Issue 287</a></strong> [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> add concepts, to be reviewed by Beatriz </p>
<p id=a10 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add Purpose concepts - Harsh</p>
<p id=a11 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Review Purpose concepts - Beatriz</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t14>Standards</h3>
<p id=x086 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x087 class=summary> discussion on the need for explaining how ISO concepts align with DPV concepts, and approaches being to create extensions so ISO concepts also available in machine-readable format, and to then provide a machine-readable mapping, and a HTML guide for humans; Issues identified regarding copyright, extent of work and coverage, and necessity.</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Propose we add core concepts from 29100 to explain foundational ISO concepts like PII and that these are covered in DPV.</p>
<p id=x089 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> can we also add 27000 concepts which are key for security</p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we can also not provide the extension as the mapping</p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s06"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1 for mapping</p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s03"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 for mapping</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s07"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> +1 for mapping</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1 for mapping</p>
<p id=x095 class=summary> agreed to create the mapping in a machine-readable manner with HTML guide, but to not have the extension</p>
<p id=a12 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create the ISO mapping and the HTML documentation</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t16>ETSI AI standards</h4>
<p id=x099 class="phone s08"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> two ETSI standards for cybersecurity for cyber resilience act and second is responding to the request for implementing the AI Act in relation to AI operation. They are a bit away from data/privacy and more on cybersecurity/software engineering. May need to see if they are relevant to DPV scope.</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s08"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Securing Artificial Intelligence (SAI); Baseline Cyber Security Requirements for AI Models and Systems Cyber Security Requirements for AI  <a href="https://portal.etsi.org/webapp/WorkProgram/Report_WorkItem.asp?WKI_ID=74952">https://<wbr>portal.etsi.org/<wbr>webapp/<wbr>WorkProgram/<wbr>Report_WorkItem.asp?WKI_ID=74952</a></p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s08"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Methods for Testing &amp; Specification (MTS); Continuous Auditing Based Conformity Assessment for AI-enabled systems Continuous Audit Conformity Assessment for AI  <a href="https://portal.etsi.org/webapp/workProgram/Report_WorkItem.asp?wki_id=68039">https://<wbr>portal.etsi.org/<wbr>webapp/<wbr>workProgram/<wbr>Report_WorkItem.asp?wki_id=68039</a></p>
<p id=x102 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> To check with folks like Delaram who have worked on AI (Act) standards before would be good to check for scope</p>
<h4 id=t17>India's DPDP</h4>
<p id=x104 class=summary> India's DPDP is the privacy law </p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s09"><cite>AjayJadhav:</cite> part of the CREDEBL project (<a href="https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/projects/credebl">https://<wbr>www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/<wbr>projects/<wbr>credebl</a>) in Linux foundation decentralized Trust. We are interested in understanding how DPV can be extended for India's DPDP</p>
<p id=x106 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Excellent, as we had discussed DPDP before, and Georg/Signatu also had work on this. We have the IN extension for India, so within that namespace we'd have to create an extension for DPDP similar to how EU-GDPR has an extension. Then we model the concepts within that -- we use spreadsheets for this. Best to follow up via email on this.</p>
<p id=x107 class="phone s07"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> We have worked on this as well. Better to combine efforts to avoid duplication/repetition.</p>
<p id=a13 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> For DPDP, Ajay to email Harsh to follow up the conversation; and then Harsh will loop Georg in for avoiding duplicate work</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t18>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x110 class=summary> The next meeting will be on FEB-11 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">add Secondary Use to SECTOR-HEALTH by extending the DPV concept</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Add ODRL agreements for 7012 - Beatriz and Harsh</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Make w3id changes for 7012</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Review AI concepts - Delaram</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Review GDPR concepts - Stratis, Georg, Ruhi</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Explore how to reduce the size of the DPV spec vocabulary index</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">to be reviewed by Art</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">Add Location concepts to PD and TECH with guidance</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">Review Location concepts - Julian</a></li>
<li><a href="#a10">Add Purpose concepts - Harsh</a></li>
<li><a href="#a11">Review Purpose concepts - Beatriz</a></li>
<li><a href="#a12">Create the ISO mapping and the HTML documentation</a></li>
<li><a href="#a13">For DPDP, Ajay to email Harsh to follow up the conversation; and then Harsh will loop Georg in for avoiding duplicate work</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
