<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 06 FEB 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>06 FEB 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250206T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, harshPandit, julianFlake, julioHernandez, markLizar, mayraRusso, mugdhaKhedkar, nihadAtakishiyev, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.1 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">AI Training</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Subjective Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Inverted Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t06">Data Categories from IAB/Google</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">EHDS extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Call for User Participation</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-02-06">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-02-06</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.1 release</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/198">Issue 198</a></strong> DPV v2.1 release management (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> v2.1 release candidate with open review until FEB-16; see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Feb/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Feb/<wbr>0002.html</a> and <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/235">w3c/<wbr>dpv#235</a> for hotfixes</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>AI Training</h3>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/82">Issue 82</a></strong> Provide vocabulary to specify purposes and permissions related to AI training (by scottkellum)</p>
<p id=x018 class=summary> continued discussion from last meeting on whether specifying concepts related to AI training should be within the scope of DPVCG</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> AI training concepts are currently missing - they are necessary to state e.g. ODRL policies to state whether AI training is permitted or prohibited</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> we had the AIUP paper with Delaram which had concepts related to training for use with ODRL profile <em>AIUP: an ODRL Profile for Expressing AI Use Policies to Support the EU AI Act</em> <a href="https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3759/paper17.pdf">https://<wbr>ceur-ws.org/<wbr>Vol-3759/<wbr>paper17.pdf</a></p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Yes, that paper has some concepts related to AI use, and it uses VAIR <a href="http://w3id.org/vair">http://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>vair</a> to state AI training. But that concept is a broad concept representing training, whereas we should state granular concepts for specific kinds of training e.g. there is fine-tuning which takes an existing trained model and applies more training on it. So the proposal here is to provide such a taxonomy for use with DPV.</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 to include concepts</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s03"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> +1 to include concepts</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s04"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> +1 to include concepts</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> agreed to include it in scope; next step is to create proposed concepts and discuss them</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Subjective Locations</h3>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209">Issue 209</a></strong> [Concept]: `AtX` subjective Location concepts  (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> continued discussion from last week on adding subjective locations e.g. home, work, park, school</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s03"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> +1 </p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s04"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s05"><cite>markLizar:</cite> what is the context? Where does this requirement come from? </p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> e.g. for GDPR there is a DPIA condition regarding CCTV in public spaces - so how do we model a public space like a park is what these concepts are for</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s04"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> did we model GDPR exemption for personal processing?</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> no, we don't have that in DPV as of now</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s05"><cite>markLizar:</cite> we worked on public space CCTV notices where this would be of use</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> should we do public/private categorisation as Mark suggested last week?</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s05"><cite>markLizar:</cite> yes but it should be public, private, and personal - so three categories</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> okay, we are going for legally relevant categorisations such as publicly accessible areas, but there are nuances e.g. a hotel lobby is a private location that is publicly accessible and is considered as a public area in some contexts - so we should also consider these e.g. as publicly accessible private areas</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s05"><cite>markLizar:</cite> home/office is private, retail is semi-private - so there are useful categories to work with</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> agreed, though what should be granularity? How do we decide what concepts to model? </p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> what about virtual locations? within device exists, so e.g. within app and so more can also be useful here</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s03"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> +1 Iâ€™d be inclined to add virtual locations; e.g. on a specific website, in an app, on a server</p>
<p id=x043 class=summary> agreed to include these concepts as proposed, and to discuss specific location concepts as a proposal</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Inverted Locations</h3>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/208">Issue 208</a></strong> [Concept]: Add Non-X (X = specific location) to represent locations that are not X (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x046 class=summary> Continued discussion on &quot;inverted location&quot; i.e. non-EU location for locations that are not EU</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> +1, would be useful for ODRL</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s03"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> +1, 'not' in option would be good to explicitly indicate not being in a location</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> Tentatively agreed to consider these locations, next step is to discuss with a concrete proposal</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t06>Data Categories from IAB/Google</h4>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> proposal with Iain, Add IAB, Google data taxonomies under PD e.g. pd/iab, and pd/google as they are widely used? (DPVCG would still interpret them with sensitive information, special categories, etc. in addition to whatever is present in them)</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s03"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> would be better to discuss later with more concrete ideas</p>
<h4 id=t07>EHDS extension</h4>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> want to EHDS extension for PACSOI project; how does it work with Health Sector extension?</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> not fixed yet, but my thoughts are that we have DPV Purpose as core concept, Health Sector extends them for health specific concepts, and then the EHDS extension extends the Health Sector concepts</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> what is the status of the extension? It needs to be updated, and I am interested in doing that for the PACSOI project</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, it needs to be updated. Georg was working on it. Best way to know would be to email Georg, CC me and we can see how to update it.</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> btw, does Belgium have a national health regulation aligned with EHDS, similar to how Ireland got the Health Information Bill last year which is aligned with the EHDS regulation - knowing these would allow us to decide how to model national laws for health data spaces in a way that links them to EU EHDS </p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> not sure about the national law here, there are people working on the health projects who might know</p>
<h4 id=t08>Call for User Participation</h4>
<p id=x062 class="phone s06"><cite>nihadAtakishiyev:</cite> joined recently, conducting a MSc research project at Uni. Paderborn with Mugdha where we are using DPV</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s07"><cite>mugdhaKhedkar:</cite> we are conducting research at uni. paderborn and want to propose concepts from work on android apps where we are exploring automation of DPV generation for android apps. We are conducting a study for this to understand what data is being collected and representing that based on DPV  <a href="https://www.hni.uni-paderborn.de/sse/lehre/user-study-automating-android-privacy-assessments#c930114">https://<wbr>www.hni.uni-paderborn.de/<wbr>sse/<wbr>lehre/<wbr>user-study-automating-android-privacy-assessments#c930114</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x065 class=summary> The next meeting will be on FEB-13 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET and will be chaired by Beatriz</p>
<p id=x066 class=summary> Agenda will be continuing discussion on topics started under v2.2</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
