<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 19 NOV 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>19 NOV 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251119T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, GabrielaKurteva, HarshPandit, IainHenderson, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, StratisKoulierakius, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog, PaulRyan</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">W3C reports</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Improve Main Spec</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Examples, Use-Cases</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t06">Mapping laws</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t08">ISO taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">CRDM/EIT AI Concepts</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t12">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t13">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251119T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251119T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-19">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-11-19</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-12">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-11-12</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>DPVCG Charter</h4>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Working document: <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc</a></p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> do we continue with the simple approach as discussed in the last meeting?</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> agreed on structure of DPVCG charter</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Circulate draft of DPVCG charter - Harsh</p>
<h4 id=t03>W3C reports</h4>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/363">Issue 363</a></strong> Submit DPV v2.1 to w3c cg outputs for normative purls (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/364">Issue 364</a></strong> Submit v2.2 to w3c cg repo for normative purls (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> WIP (to modify prior versions with red outdated box - checking the procedure)</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Submit v2.2.1 and v1, v2, v2.1 with changes to w3c - Harsh</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fix <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/406">#406</a> primer links when submitting to w3c - Harsh</p>
<h4 id=t04>Improve Main Spec</h4>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> Harsh initial simplification proposal at <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>dpv-simplification/<wbr>dpv.html</a></p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> some technical issues with links redirection, to be solved with custom js</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Implement the revised main spec</p>
<h4 id=t05>Examples, Use-Cases</h4>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/12">Issue 12</a></strong> Use-Cases and Examples showing how vocab can be used (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Our previous use-cases page exists at <a href="https://w3c.github.io/dpv/use-cases/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>use-cases/</a> Do we do these per (ontological e.g. purpose, and not taxonomical e.g. marketing) concept or do we do these in general for large groups of contexts? (my preference is for coverage as a priority, so high-level that covers all existing concepts and then we can have more use-cases later)</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1 broad approach is good otherwise we have lots of concepts and overlaps</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary> agreed to continue with examples as currently done, for use-cases to focus on the high-level coverage</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add examples and use-cases guidance</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Mapping laws</h3>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/186">Issue 186</a></strong> Create Mapping between GDPR and DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> - HarshPandit: should <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.3-dev/legal/eu/gdpr/#mapping">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>2.3-dev/<wbr>legal/<wbr>eu/<wbr>gdpr/#mapping</a> be expanded to article by article analysis?</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1 article by article would be helpful, would be nice to know how much of the GDPR articles are covered by DPV</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s05"><cite>StratisKoulierakius:</cite> +1 </p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> is this GDPR → DPV or DPV → GDPR (Harsh its GDPR → DPV). </p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We have source references to GDPR</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Source is different, concepts is also mapped to different articles (but +1 to go with article by article) For Art.4 this is definitions so this is an exact match as it exists in DPV but for other concepts this is not clear</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> so this would be e.g. Art.35 has DPIA concepts and there is also guidance with links</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> having mappings from article to concepts or even to guide / topic documents is good (e.g. for DPIA, ROPA)</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> It would be good to state DPV covers all definitions in articles; we should look at whether there are SHACL shapes and SPARQL queries to represent the mappings</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> I am thinking we put this in HTML for people to see for a given article where to look for concepts, if there is somrthing in main DPV, something in EU-GDPR, guidelines or examples. We can add notes for what is not covered as well.</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> How detailed or granular should this be?</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> I'm thinking we go for high-level coverage so people can see whether a topic has relevant concepts or not, and there's an infinite number of additional concepts/things that couid be added, but there is sufficient stuff to be useful now</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> AI Act also has guidelines for prohibited systems which we might want to reference when talking about concepts for AI Act</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> also harmonised standards, would 42005 be in scope or not, for AI Act it would be good to reference links to harmonised standards</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Do we put certifications as separate documents and put the mapping over there? (ref. to Stratis' thesis)</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create github issues for mappings associated with AI Act, EHDS, NIS2</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Updates</h3>
<h4 id=t08>ISO taxonomy</h4>
<p id=x059 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> propose setting up extension structure and scope as /standards/iso ; and then within it we have iso/core for the main concepts or we have iso/29100 for the main concepts e.g. PII Principal and in /mappings/iso we have the mappings from iso vocabularies to DPV concepts</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s02"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> 29100 already has mapping to GDPR, maybe we go ISO to GDPR to DPV? (+1) (I was wrong on that, there is an 29100 → 27000 mapping only in ISO29100)</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> for jurisdictions which don't use GDPR this would be complex, so we can directly go DPV to ISO</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> for the structure in the repo, for the mappings to regulations, it will be in the /dpv/guides?</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> it will be in the EU-GDPR html </p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> mappings between DPV and ontologies (they are in /mappings) and the other is the HTML spec</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> maybe we change what we call 'mappings' in HTML to &quot;coverage of GDPR terms in DPV&quot; or something similar</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> guides are for people using the DPV e.g. consent records is in guides for ISO 27560, and there is also something in the GDPR about it</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> also what I was referring to in relation to the GDPR mapping. Having mappings from articles to concepts and guides is a good thing.</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> If I have a guide about NIS2 where do I put it?</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> if its only about NIS2, then it goes in NIS2 legal namespaces. If its also helpful for others but takes requirements from NIS2 then it goes to guides.</p>
<h4 id=t09>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x074 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s04"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> working on mapping AI Act articles to DPv, and the outcome will be a list of proposed concepts; there is already work on high-risk and prohibited systems</p>
<h4 id=t10>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x077 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Met Christian, no updates to report back now. We have ongoing work on use-case where Christian is applying this to the real use and we are identifying minimal concepts from the synthetic + real use-case ; we are also working on English labels</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Working with german labels so there might be a need for English labels</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> okay for me if the German system allows only german labels; if no one outside Germany context is using this then there isn't a need for English labels; in any case, there will be concepts extended from core DPV concepts so there is a contextual understanding of what the concept in German law is</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Some links between GDNG and GDPR e.g. personal data which would be good to highlight</p>
<h4 id=t11>CRDM/EIT AI Concepts</h4>
<p id=x083 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x084 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The CRDM concept links were broken, the publications office has provided the correct link and the IRIs currently giving 404s will be resolved soon; see github issue</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Delaram has been working on mapping, we will have a proposal next week. </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>AOB</h3>
<p id=x088 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> EU Commission has published omnibus simplification proposals formally for GDPR and AI Act today; don't know changes from leaked version yet</p>
<p id=x089 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> When will be the last meeting of 2025? When will be the first meeting of 2026?</p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Last meeting this year on DEC-17 (last WED before christmas break) and first meeting in new year on JAN-07. Will also add this to the agenda for next meeting.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x092 class=summary> The next meeting will be on NOV-26 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Circulate draft of DPVCG charter - Harsh</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Submit v2.2.1 and v1, v2, v2.1 with changes to w3c - Harsh</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Fix #406 primer links when submitting to w3c - Harsh</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Implement the revised main spec</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Add examples and use-cases guidance</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Create github issues for mappings associated with AI Act, EHDS, NIS2</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
