<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 11 FEB 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>11 FEB 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260211T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, ChristianDraeger, DelaramGolpayegani, ElenaMolino, FabianLinde, GabrielaKurteva, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, IainHenderson, JulianFlake, MarlinKisia, PaulRyan, RuhiAnandFinn, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>None</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Submit to LOV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV v2.3 release schedule</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">w3id updates</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">v2.3</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t06">ISO mapping</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">GDPR concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">EU EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">AI extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">IEEE 7012 / MyTerms</a></li>
<li><a href="#t13">Usability</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">Locations</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t15">v2.4</a></li>
<li><a href="#t16">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260211T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20260211T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-11">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-02-11</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-04">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2026-02-04</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>Submit to LOV</h4>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> what is the format for this? do we know? E.g. do we give IRI, link to turtle file, title, list of authors (they are there in the RDF)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Generate CSVs for v2.2 and v2.3. Check for v2.2 with the LOV maintainers if this is okay while v2.3 is in draft mode, then we send the update for v2.3</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to produce LOV spreadsheet for v2.2</p>
<h4 id=t03>DPV v2.3 release schedule</h4>
<p id=x020 class=summary> (we are waiting for EHDS, GDNG, and IEEE 7012 – see later discussions) </p>
<p id=x021 class=summary> okay to complete the pending items by tomorrow and then have the draft release; ask people to review until the next meeting to make a decision on finalising the publishing the release</p>
<h4 id=t04>w3id updates</h4>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/425">Issue 425</a></strong> w3id updates needed for v2.3 (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> see issue comment</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> see PR ; needs review and there's an open question on IEEE 7012 namespace; added redirects for older versions i.e. v2.1 and v2.2 will still go to standards/p7012 and the new one will go to standards/ieee/7012</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> what to do with ODRL agreements? Do this in v2.4?</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> Yes, okay to do this in v2.4.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to review w3id config</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to move folder w3id from master to dev branch</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>v2.3</h3>
<h4 id=t06>ISO mapping</h4>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> propose we have draft release tomorrow; review and finalise in next week's meeting</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s05"><cite>TyttiRintamaki:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s06"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> w3id should work here</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> HTML and RDF mapping, possible to add more ISO concepts e.g. 27000 series in the future here without new extensions or namespaces</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> what is the meaning of a draft release?</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> means we are still working it, and there may be breaking changes in the future. Same thing we are doing with the EHDS</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> so this is just for the extension (mapping) and not the whole release</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> agree to publish mapping as draft</p>
<h4 id=t07>GDPR concepts</h4>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386">Issue 386</a></strong> Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x047 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298">Issue 298</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> has been confirmed in previous meeting</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Use Stratis's correct name for acknowledgement</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> contributors to check name and provide affiliation and funding acknowledgements if relevant</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary> agree to publish GDPR extension</p>
<h4 id=t08>EU EHDS</h4>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/299">Issue 299</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for EHDS (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> changes discussed in last meeting; concepts are in the spreadsheet for EHDS</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> for Health Sector these are new concepts so these should be copied from working spreadsheets to DPVCG spreadsheets</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> So we copy concepts, then download and generate RDF and HTML</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Do we add any documentation in HTML?</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Can do this for these changes via a PR</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Copy concepts for EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH to DPVCG spreadsheets - Harsh &amp; Beatriz</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Update EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH extensions with new concepts - Harsh &amp; Beatriz</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add documentation for EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH - Beatriz</p>
<p id=x063 class=summary> timeline - complete by tomorrow</p>
<p id=x064 class=summary> agree to publish EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH</p>
<h4 id=t09>AI extension</h4>
<p id=x066 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x067 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x068 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">Issue 197</a></strong> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> reviewed with Delaram - accepted</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x071 class=summary> agree to publish AI </p>
<h4 id=t10>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x073 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/300">Issue 300</a></strong> Model Intended Purpose Compatibility statuses for AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x074 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294">Issue 294</a></strong> AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> reviewed with Delaram - accepted (show mapping to DPV – propose we do something similar for GDPR and other laws in the next release)</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> three new major changes 1) mapping from AI Act to DPV 2) AI system concepts represent high-risk and prohibited systems 3) instances representing high-risk systems in Annex I and III and prohibited systems in Art.5</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> FIX Art.6-2 definition refers to 6-1</p>
<p id=x078 class=summary> agree to publish AI Act</p>
<h4 id=t11>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x080 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> have provided an update with the HTML and updated diagrams etc. as the PR ; ready to be merged</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> we saw in the AI act that there are refereneces to articles in the IRI, should this be done?</p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> we only do these for important concepts that are tied to the legal identifiers or clause numbers e.g. legal basis in GDPR</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> also for the rights and justifications in GDPR</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> We concluded it is necessary to add some numbers in IRI</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> okay to do this and change in future version as this is a draft</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> need further work on parent types e.g. needs a review to suggest correct parent types</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> (commend on quality of concepts and documentation -- good to follow for future extensions even if they are draft)</p>
<p id=a10 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Merge GDNG PR as draft extension</p>
<h4 id=t12>IEEE 7012 / MyTerms</h4>
<p id=x091 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/413">Issue 413</a></strong> Ensure P7012 concepts extend core DPV concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x092 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/423">Issue 423</a></strong> Change `P7012` to `IEEE 7012` (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> should this be kept as release considering things are still being finalised from Iain's side (see today's email). ODRL concepts and agreements are also pending.</p>
<p id=x094 class=summary> +1 from Harsh and Beatriz to finalise this in v2.4</p>
<p id=x095 class="phone s03"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> event at the end of January for the launch of MyTerms went well ; event was recorded if anyone wants to see it. Now we are focusing on practical aspects, which involves setting up &quot;MyTerms alliance&quot;, which includes IEEE, Customer Commons, MyData Global. Also interested is Inrupt (Solid). So we're forming this alliance as Phase 1 and we'll know more of what it means in practice. </p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s03"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> We're working with IEEE to develop accredition, training, and trust maps for support in implementing the standard. MyData will have a meeting in Brussels in April likely. Also talking to Solid community and Jessie/ODI.</p>
<p id=x097 class=summary> agree to provide more concrete ODRL agreements, concepts, and guidance in v2.4</p>
<h4 id=t13>Usability</h4>
<p id=x099 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395">Issue 395</a></strong> Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Show refine index in main DPV spec – list is only shown on demand. Is this acceptable?</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> looks good, my idea was that we have a list of modules and under that the list of concepts in that module which is expanded when a concept is selected</p>
<p id=x102 class="phone s07"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> looks good, we should also ask people to take a look -- especially new people </p>
<p id=x103 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x104 class=summary> agree to continue with this layout</p>
<p id=a11 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fix module links (broken in some cases) - Harsh</p>
<h4 id=t14>Locations</h4>
<p id=x107 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341">Issue 341</a></strong> Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x108 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342">Issue 342</a></strong> Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x109 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Based on discussions on location concepts, have added concepts for Home, Work, and Current Location to PD, and marked all location concepts as instances of <code>dpv:Location</code>. Same for TECH extension - marked existing data storage and processing as locations. We agreed to this after length discussions the last time around, and we pushed these concepts from 2.0 to 2.1 then to 2.2.</p>
<p id=x110 class="phone s06"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> this is good to have for developing technologies; this needs to be expanded case by case</p>
<p id=x111 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> need to review this as a device as a location is not accurate</p>
<p id=x112 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> a device as a location means its a virtual location, so its a concept in the same sense that you say data is being stored on a server in EU, or its stored on your phone. So the phone is a location for storing data locally. This is the common use reflected in the concept.</p>
<p id=x113 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> for TECH, the concepts are also marked as <code>ProcessingLocation</code> and <code>StorageLocation</code> for making this clear.</p>
<p id=a12 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Julian (and others) to review this</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>v2.4</h3>
<p id=x116 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> proposed work program <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/10">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>10</a> -- review and indicate interest to be involved in the work</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t16>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x118 class=summary> The next meeting will be on FEB-18 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Harsh to produce LOV spreadsheet for v2.2</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Harsh to review w3id config</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Harsh to move folder w3id from master to dev branch</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Use Stratis's correct name for acknowledgement</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">contributors to check name and provide affiliation and funding acknowledgements if relevant</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Copy concepts for EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH to DPVCG spreadsheets - Harsh &amp; Beatriz</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Update EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH extensions with new concepts - Harsh &amp; Beatriz</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">Add documentation for EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH - Beatriz</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">FIX Art.6-2 definition refers to 6-1</a></li>
<li><a href="#a10">Merge GDNG PR as draft extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#a11">Fix module links (broken in some cases) - Harsh</a></li>
<li><a href="#a12">Julian (and others) to review this</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
