<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 10 DEC 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>10 DEC 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251210T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, GabrielaKurteva, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Signals/GDPR Art.88b</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">ISO taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">NIS2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">CRDM/EIT AI Concepts</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t10">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251210T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251210T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-12-10">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-12-10</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-12-03">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-12-03</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPVCG Charter</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Working document: <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc</a></p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Thanks to comments from Julian and Beatriz.</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> For the scope, we have stated only privacy and data protection. So wondering if we should rephrase this to include our work on AI Act. Sentence added by Harsh for this is okay.</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Lots of acronyms like ODRL, RDF, etc. Not sure everyone knows what this means.</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> (not much of relevance for CG charter) since this charter will also be going for the WG charter, so what should be the most important thing that goes to WG should be clear</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> W3C CG council will help on this to put together a charter for the WG from the CG charter</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> ODRL CG is also working on converting the spec to a WG charter/work. Expected to happen in March.</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> maybe list of liaisions and dependencies should be left our of the charter since they would imply constant updating. Liason is okay, but dependencies implies a strong requirement. List of liasons also implies a need to update the charter everytime we add/remove a liason, and also could be an issue for a group not listed here as to why we aren't we liasing with them.</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Proposed clarification and that we will update the list next time.</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Next step is to share this with the group on mailing list with a link to the document on our website - main repo. We have 20-30 days to comment and then we decide in these meetings through consensus.</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> agreed</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Signals/GDPR Art.88b</h3>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/410">Issue 410</a></strong> Represent Privacy Signals like GPC, ADPC, and others (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The proposed GDPR amendments under Omnibus have a good measure in Article 88b on signals for consent. The article states that the Commission will have to develop a harmonised standard to implement a setting for devices and browsers to implement a management interface to both give and refuse/withdraw consent. Obviously, this will take time as the law and the standard are both processes that take years. In the meantime, what should we do?</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The Commission may be interested to know more about DPV and how it works with MyTerms/IEEE 7012 where our extension provide privacy terms. Similarly, consenter.eu has proposed using ADPC with DPV to communicate what the consent is about. </p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Should this be something that the DPVCG should work on more to support the measures? If so, how?</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Also relevant here that Signatu implements DPV for consent management</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Indeed, but its important here to show that the specifics of Article 88b are being implemented (using DPV), so Signatu will need a new implementation that shows a new implementation for the management features. Could be based on MyTerms or ADPC and using DPV.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> This is also relevant for Solid and the work in Flanders/Belgium. But the consent management only provides information, there is no enforcement. There should be enforcement / usage control.</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> This is the current state of the proposals and law, where we must first work hard to even convince that signals/DPV/etc. are feasible and should be mandated to be used. Otherwise we have adverserial lobbying that says this is too expensive to implement or is technically not feasible. So our task here would be to show that this is feasible, we've done it, and that we also have real implementations like in Signatu and Solid/Flanders that shows this is needed and operationally feasible.</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> For enforcement, we need support from environments like devices and browsers, which is very hard. We can do things after the initial steps are firmly in place, like if consent has been refused for a purpose, don't release the location information via the API. Someone will need to show how this needs to be done step by step. I'm planning to write something on this over the holiday break. Will share when done.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Had written this previously about implementation, but didn't work on it further: &quot;Proposals for Resolving Consenting Issues with Signals and User-side Dialogues&quot; <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.05786">https://<wbr>arxiv.org/<wbr>abs/<wbr>2208.05786</a></p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Of relevance, our recent paper &quot;Can the GPC standard eliminate consent banners in the EU?&quot; <a href="https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2512.08856">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.48550/<wbr>arXiv.2512.08856</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Updates</h3>
<h4 id=t04>ISO taxonomy</h4>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Harsh to organise meeting with Stratis, then loop in others to create a proposed solution for ISO taxonomy</p>
<h4 id=t05>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Beatriz, Georg, Harsh to discuss EHDS on DEC-17 16:00+2 CET</p>
<h4 id=t06>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Delaram, Georg, Harsh to discuss AI Act on DEC-19 14:00+2 CET</p>
<h4 id=t07>NIS2</h4>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Georg, Harsh to discuss NIS2 on incident notifications and assessments asnyc</p>
<h4 id=t08>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x052 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Had two meetings with Christian and colleagues to discuss use-cases and how DPV and ODRL fits. Work is progressing.</p>
<h4 id=t09>CRDM/EIT AI Concepts</h4>
<p id=x055 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Suggest we resolve this async on github issues as we have identified the concepts and they are additions to the AI taxonomy. We can use the meetings only to reach conclusions while discussions happen on github.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>AOB</h3>
<p id=x059 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Came across this paper in 2024 on an ontology called &quot;OntoPriv&quot; <a href="https://doi.org/10.1109/CLEI64178.2024.10700326">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.1109/<wbr>CLEI64178.2024.10700326</a> that used GConsent to model Ecuaderian privacy law. I got in touch with the author to evangelise about DPV, and they switched to using DPV. I suggested they add their work to the DPV as a legal extension for Ecuador and its privacy law, and open a github issue for this. This is a good way to also show DPV works on a global scale, and would be a good thing for the community to do if they see work that can benefit from being added to DPV.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x061 class=summary> The next meeting will be on DEC-17 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
<p id=x062 class=summary> timeline for last meeting wed before Christmas DEC-17, restart first Wed new year JAN-07 -- works for everyone</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Harsh to organise meeting with Stratis, then loop in others to create a proposed solution for ISO taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Beatriz, Georg, Harsh to discuss EHDS on DEC-17 16:00+2 CET</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Delaram, Georg, Harsh to discuss AI Act on DEC-19 14:00+2 CET</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Georg, Harsh to discuss NIS2 on incident notifications and assessments asnyc</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
