<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 13 MAR 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>13 MAR 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250313T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, iainHenderson, julianFlake, julioHernandez, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">2.1 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">AI Training</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Subjective Locations</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">Inverted Locations</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">Uncategorised/Unstructured Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Professionally Confidential Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Smartphone/Device Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Datasheets/Model Cards</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t10">27560 revision</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">Purpose x Data combinations</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t12">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-03-13">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-03-13</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>2.1 release</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/235">Issue 235</a></strong> DPV v2.1-RC hotfixes and feedback (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class=summary> no major issues or fixes identified - group agrees to publish DPV 2.1</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>AI Training</h3>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/82">Issue 82</a></strong> Provide vocabulary to specify purposes and permissions related to AI training (by scottkellum)</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> (summarised the discussion and proposed solutions - what we need to decide is whether this is the correct approach to move ahead)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>julioHernandez:</cite> In the description of this issue, what is meant by permission/prohibition?</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> The original issue raised the question of how to express AI training is prohibited over some data or webpage. So the discussion led to consider how do we express AI training, how do we express over what it applies and where it occurs - this is where we have the proposed concepts and why I prefer using <code>dpv:Process</code> to group them together rather than inventing a new way only for AI training. Then we can use our existing concepts to express rules e.g. training must occur only on device as an obligation - but this doesn't cover it must not occur outside the device (unless we have a concept called <code>OnlyOnDevice</code>), so for this then we also need concepts like <em>on-device</em> and <em>outside-device</em> so we can express the stated use-case. Then these concepts would also be helpful for efforts like ODRL to use in their structure to have more complex policies and licenses using our vocabulary.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Subjective Locations</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209">Issue 209</a></strong> [Concept]: `AtX` subjective Location concepts  (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> (summarised the discussion and proposed solutions - what we need to decide is whether this is the correct approach to move ahead)</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add proposed taxonomy for subjective locations to LOC for discussion</p>
<h4 id=t04>Inverted Locations</h4>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/208">Issue 208</a></strong> [Concept]: Add Non-X (X = specific location) to represent locations that are not X (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> (summarised the discussion and proposed solutions - what we need to decide is whether this is the correct approach to move ahead)</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> create HTML output to discuss inverted locations with examples</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Uncategorised/Unstructured Data</h3>
<p id=x030 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/240">Issue 240</a></strong> Add `UnstructuredData` and `UncategorisedData` concepts/properties (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> What are the definitions of these? Does it mean we will also have or need a concept like <code>UncategorisedPersonalData</code> to distinguish when e.g. GDPR special categories have not been identified within some personal data?</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Yes, that is a possibility, for example to note in a ROPA that we don't know what special categories are involved. Similarly, in theory, there could be categorisations for sensitive data.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> Make it explicit that it is explicitly not categorised as personal or non-personal data - if any other categories have to included - make a different concept.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add note to uncategorised data that states this is only regarding personal data</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>julian:</cite> For unstructured data, semi-structured data should also be considered</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add proposal to unstructured data for semi-structured data</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Professionally Confidential Data</h3>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/241">Issue 241</a></strong> [Concept]: Add professional secrecy/confidentiality (by daniwelter)</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary> accepted</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Smartphone/Device Data</h3>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/244">Issue 244</a></strong> [Concept]: Enhancements for Personal Data Types (by nihadatakishiyev)</p>
<p id=x042 class=summary> requested revision from proposers, no further updates</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Datasheets/Model Cards</h3>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/94">Issue 94</a></strong> Represent Datasheets and Model Cards with DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> How will this be done / implemented?</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> I'm taking the questions in the documents and treating them as information fields, then matching them with DPV concepts and seeing how much can be represented using DPV itself, and what is needed additionally. Based on this, will have proposals for adding concepts, and developing technical specifications. At the moment, this is ongoing work, so don't have concrete outputs to present for DPV concepts.</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> (to Delaram) are there any standards works that provide datasheets or model cards?</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> There is a transparency standard in harmonised standard request. Other than that, no specific standard directly for these, but ISO/IEC 12792 AI transparency standard mentions these in the Annex.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t10>27560 revision</h4>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> With Jan Lindquist, we have made a proposal to ISO SC27/WG5 group which will revise 27560 to enable records for any legal basis. This is heavily based on work in DPVCG and Paul's thesis regarding ROPA for GDPR implementations in EU/EEA</p>
<h4 id=t11>Purpose x Data combinations</h4>
<p id=x053 class="phone s06"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> Have a proposal on modelling combinations of purpose, data, and legal bases that are commonly used. </p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Let's discuss next week with some examples for the proposal, so we have it on the agenda.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x056 class=summary> The next meeting will be on MAR-20 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x057 class=summary> Agenda will be continuing discussion on topics started under v2.2 and any other updates that come up.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Add proposed taxonomy for subjective locations to LOC for discussion</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">create HTML output to discuss inverted locations with examples</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Add note to uncategorised data that states this is only regarding personal data</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Add proposal to unstructured data for semi-structured data</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
