<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 20 FEB 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>20 FEB 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250220T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, georgKrog, harshPandit, iainHenderson, julianFlake, julioHernandez, markLizar, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">v2.1 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Guides</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">v2.2 roadmap</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t04">latest state of consent</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">v2.2 planning</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t06">AI Training</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Subjective Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Inverted Locations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-02-20">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-02-20</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>v2.1 release</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/235">Issue 235</a></strong> DPV v2.1-RC hotfixes and feedback (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we had put up the v2.1 release candidate with open review until FEB-16; see <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Feb/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Feb/<wbr>0002.html</a> and <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/235">w3c/<wbr>dpv#235</a> for hotfixes. Are we ready to publish this or do we need more time to review?</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> +2 weeks </p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s03"><cite>julioHernandez:</cite> +1 week</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s04"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 week</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> +2 weeks</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> group agreed to take 2 more weeks to review the release; next meeting we will identify if there are any major concerns, and then the week after that we will aim to finalise and publish</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Guides</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/242">Issue 242</a></strong> Provide Guides for Supporting Adoption & Use of DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s06"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> guides are needed to understand DPV and use it otherwise it is difficult to understand what to use where as there is a large amount of information and no guidance - we should prioritise having guides to help use DPV, but this is not a blocking issue for the v2.1 release (so for v2.2)</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> agree, we have various guides listed but they have not been completed and delivered</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s06"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> want to help, but not sure of time</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s07"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> will a structure, time help e.g. to do short tasks?</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s06"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> would prefer to discuss rather than directly write something if possible, but otherwise okay to help with a paragraph</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> guides should be easy to write (in my head) but we need to think about content</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s07"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> we have papers for several topics which we can use to put something in the document as a draft - ROPA, DPIA, Data Breach, Rights; will use this to populate the documents and then we can discuss with this as a starting point next week with the aim to v2.2 being supported with guides</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s08"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> what would be present in these guides?</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> see for example the consent guide <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/guides/consent-27560">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>guides/<wbr>consent-27560</a> which states how to represent information for consent records using DPV and how to use it to do specific tasks</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> group agreed to make this a priority for v2.2 release</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> establish working plan for implementing guides for v2.2</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>v2.2 roadmap</h3>
<p id=x035 class=summary> see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>7</a></p>
<h4 id=t04>latest state of consent</h4>
<p id=x037 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/114">Issue 114</a></strong> In 27560-records, how to identify the latest consent state? (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> latest state of consent, Georg mentioned he has a implementation  that is different from DCAT</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> no issue with DCAT, I meant we are not doing things with DCAT</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> DCAT v3, pointer to latest state = keep records separately, pointer to immutable consent = record changes separately - we discuss and show how these are implemented</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> need for historical status e.g. if an org sends a newsletter based on consent, and then you withdraw the consent, and then later reconsent again</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add note to 27560 guide for above example in intro section</p>
<h4 id=t05>v2.2 planning</h4>
<p id=x044 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> commonality or priority in v2.2 tasks?</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s04"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> focus for next months is EHDS</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s07"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> (on behalf of Delaram) AI Act and risks/impacts associated with AI</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> AI Act, Rights from DGA and Data Act, to map all entities in new regulations - we have for DGA, but we don't have for Data Act, DSA, DMA; </p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s07"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> clarify, priority as DSA and DMA are specific and if we have limited bandwidth what do we focus on</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> at least the entities and roles as these are useful in lots of use-cases</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s06"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> preference for privacy and data protection aspects, and how these are covered or affected by additional laws - we can discuss; but not particularly interested in covering new topics</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s03"><cite>julioHernandez:</cite> extensions, concepts, how to get these to work?</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> guides, purpose of guides …. also tutorials – we also had the idea to do a workshop on how to build things with DPV</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s09"><cite>beatriz:</cite> agree, would be nice to have it, for the next version we should aim to have a tutorial</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s02"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> P7012 work - we should have an update soon, and extended approach to data types and purposes</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s07"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> last week we had a small chat on Google and IAB data taxonomies and concerns around simply adopting them as is due to their misuse or not being aligned with legal implications</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> sectorial things for HR and Marketing</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s07"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> HR in DPV, marketing in sector - lets take this up when we have concrete ideas</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s03"><cite>julioHernandez:</cite> would like to see more guidance - the primer is clear, but need more help with how to use classes and properties</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s07"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> OWL, not interested in maintaining complexity, can do RDFS+SKOS examples as we go along</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s03"><cite>julioHernandez:</cite> when reading the Primer, it is not clear what can be done or not with expressiveness</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s07"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> the guide on RDFS/SKOS is supposed to help with this but as we discussed earlier it isn't available - so if we complete that it should help</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>AI Training</h3>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/82">Issue 82</a></strong> Provide vocabulary to specify purposes and permissions related to AI training (by scottkellum)</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> there was a question raised in the last meeting as to the source of concepts - I used ISO 22989 which has concepts related to training. That standard is currently being revised. There are also other standards which build on top of this for specific aspects, but haven't used them here yet. There are some new standards coming later this year for privacy in/of AI systems which should be of interest to this group.</p>
<p id=x065 class=summary> discussed implication of concepts - what is the focus?</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s06"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> the focus of this group is on privacy / data protection - so we should be careful about adding things simply because they are about AI</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> agree - can rely on you to be the voice of caution here. We want to explore this concepts to indicate things related to privacy / data protection such as what data is being used, where does training occur, and so on.</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s10"><cite>harshsr:</cite> the questions raised at the moment are about our concepts - do these new ai + privacy concepts go to DPV or AI extension? Should training be a <code>Process</code> or <code>Processing</code>? How to note where it occurs? etc.</p>
<p id=x069 class=summary> group discussed the need for use-cases to discuss this work further, harsh will circulate these based on work done so far</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to share AI training use-cases on mailing list</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Subjective Locations</h3>
<p id=x072 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209">Issue 209</a></strong> [Concept]: `AtX` subjective Location concepts  (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> similar to AI training, explored concepts (see issue) with three use-cases: home, shop/mall CCTV, and app/device - it seems to work. </p>
<p id=x074 class=summary> group discussed wanting to see use-cases and examples to discuss this work further, harsh will circulate these based on work done so far</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to share subjective locations examples on mailing list</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Inverted Locations</h3>
<p id=x077 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/208">Issue 208</a></strong> [Concept]: Add Non-X (X = specific location) to represent locations that are not X (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> identified rationale for why these are needed, most of the time they won't be useful or they can be replace by programmatically checking e.g. location not in EU, but at other times directly specifying the non-EU concept is useful</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s05"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> this is an important aspect as there are legal procedures which consider such distinctions; so saying this applies to a jurisdiction or things outside the jurisdiction helps (i.e. for this, and for not this but other things)</p>
<p id=x080 class=summary> group discussed this, and agreed to continue the discussion with further use-cases and examples</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to share rationale and examples for non-EU concept to mailing list</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x083 class=summary> The next meeting will be on FEB-27 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET </p>
<p id=x084 class=summary> Agenda will be reviewing and finalising release of v2.1, and continuing discussion on topics started under v2.2</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">establish working plan for implementing guides for v2.2</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Add note to 27560 guide for above example in intro section</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">harsh to share AI training use-cases on mailing list</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">harsh to share subjective locations examples on mailing list</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">harsh to share rationale and examples for non-EU concept to mailing list</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
