<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 07 JAN 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>07 JAN 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260107T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, MarkLizar, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>GabrielaKurteva, GeorgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Submit to LOV</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">ISO taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">NIS2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">DE-GDNG</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t10">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t11">GDPR Art.88b</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">COE 108+</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t13">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260107T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20260107T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-12-17">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-12-17</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-12-17">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-12-17</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>DPVCG Charter</h4>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> Vote on approving draft Charter at <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/charter">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>charter</a> ; discuss on <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">w3c/<wbr>dpv#399</a></p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> To vote on the charter, please indicate the vote on the github issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">w3c/<wbr>dpv#399</a> or you can also indicate this by replying to the email on the public mailing list <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Dec/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Dec/<wbr>0002.html</a></p>
<h4 id=t03>Submit to LOV</h4>
<p id=x019 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Beatriz will send email to confirm the procedure with LOV maintainers (continued)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Updates</h3>
<h4 id=t05>ISO taxonomy</h4>
<p id=x023 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Harsh to nudge/liase with Stratis (done) ; Stratis to review proposal</p>
<h4 id=t06>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Beatriz and Julian had a brief meeting this week, went over the proposed concepts for EHDS; also helpful for DE-GDNG mapping</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> For the high-level concepts, should they go in the healthcare extension because they are mentioned in EHDS and DE-GDNG e.g. Health Data Holder? So this can go in the Healthcare extension and then extend it from there?</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Same for more concepts like electronic health data and other concepts</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> Agree, makes sense also because there isn't a hierarchy between the two laws so this could help have common parent concepts</p>
<h4 id=t07>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Delaram to prepare two lists for concrete proposal which is straightforward to add as they are based in law; and others which we should review as subjective modelling within DPVCG</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> meeting with Georg Friday to review the concepts. Once we have consensus, we will polish and propose them for inclusion.</p>
<h4 id=t08>NIS2</h4>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Georg, Harsh to discuss NIS2 on incident notifications and assessments asnyc (continued)</p>
<h4 id=t09>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x039 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> (see EHDS discussion, no updates for GDNG)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t11>GDPR Art.88b</h4>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> The proposed GDPR Article 88b in omnibus amendement regarding consent manager has importance to DPV in defining purposes and other key information ; will be meeting with the Commission later to discuss this and other relvant aspects; will report back</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Also looking at other efforts such as <a href="https://www.consenter.eu/">https://<wbr>www.consenter.eu/</a> and ADPC signal <a href="https://www.dataprotectioncontrol.org/spec/">https://<wbr>www.dataprotectioncontrol.org/<wbr>spec/</a></p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> In the ANCR WG we developed transparency report and assessed Google Chrome and websites; cookies is a misnomer and browser creates a identifier before user goes to the website; so you need a mechanism to state that there is an identifier being created outside your jurisdiction (will share report on the mailing list)</p>
<h4 id=t12>COE 108+</h4>
<p id=x047 class="phone s04"><cite>MarkLizar:</cite> Please add Convention 108+ legal model to the agenda ; or we can discuss on github</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Yes, please propose on github and we discuss if people agree it is in scope</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x050 class=summary> okay to continue with current time slot</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JAN-07 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Beatriz will send email to confirm the procedure with LOV maintainers (continued)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Delaram to prepare two lists for concrete proposal which is straightforward to add as they are based in law; and others which we should review as subjective modelling within DPVCG</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Georg, Harsh to discuss NIS2 on incident notifications and assessments asnyc (continued)</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
