<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 17 DEC 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>17 DEC 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251217T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>DelaramGolpayegani, GabrielaKurteva, GeorgKrog, StratisKoulierakis</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Admin</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">DPVCG Charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Submit to LOV</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">Updates</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">ISO taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">NIS2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">CRDM/EIT AI Concepts</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t11">AOB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251217T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251217T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-12-17">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-12-17</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-12-10">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-12-10</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Admin</h3>
<h4 id=t02>DPVCG Charter</h4>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">Issue 399</a></strong> Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> Vote on approving draft Charter at <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/charter">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>charter</a> ; discuss on <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">w3c/<wbr>dpv#399</a></p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> To vote on the charter, please indicate the vote on the github issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399">w3c/<wbr>dpv#399</a> or you can also indicate this by replying to the email on the public mailing list <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Dec/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Dec/<wbr>0002.html</a></p>
<h4 id=t03>Submit to LOV</h4>
<p id=x019 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> First submission of all extensions needs to be manual every time we do a release, we send an email with a list of the extensions that are updated for them to include the new versions. Check if maintainers can pull the updates automatically. The LOV maintainers are also volunteers, so we cannot ask for too much and we support them as we can</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Beatriz will send email to confirm the procedure with LOV maintainers</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> We will update the wiki once confirmed so we have the procedure documented for future versions</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Updates</h3>
<h4 id=t05>ISO taxonomy</h4>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26">Issue 26</a></strong> DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> To be discussed when Stratis/Georg are here, or to resolve async and update here (Harsh)</p>
<h4 id=t06>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x028 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Postponed by Harsh to January. One thing to also discuss in the EHDS meeting is which concepts to put in SECTOR extensions. This means whether to put concepts in DPV, RISK, TECH, etc. or the SECTOR extension for those specifically.</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Specifically the purposes should be aligned between DPV and SECTOR. In PACSOI it is not easy to see which concept or extension to use.</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Would be helpful to have an &quot;index&quot; e.g. list of purposes across all extensions </p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Also the same for personal data categories. Purpose and personal data are the two most important concepts that people start with, so this is what creates most confusion.</p>
<h4 id=t07>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> checking AI Act article by article; already reviewed until Article 20 (approx.); changes to risk level concepts and to add specific concepts for AI systems to reflect the obligations on the providers and deployers of these systems.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> meeting with Georg Friday to review the concepts. Once we have consensus, we will polish and propose them for inclusion.</p>
<h4 id=t08>NIS2</h4>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Georg, Harsh to discuss NIS2 on incident notifications and assessments asnyc (continued)</p>
<h4 id=t09>DE-GDNG</h4>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> We started to map German GDNG law concepts to EHDS concepts. These have German concepts which are aligned with the German version.</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> if we note the article / clause as source, and use the translated labels to align but not as formal labels, then it should be okay. Did similar work for GDPR, was okay.</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> An example is the case where the German one has more requirements/different requirements from the EHDS, so this will need discussion. We are developing three models, one for Christian's use-case, one in German for GDNG, and this model also in English to communicate with DPVCG for mapping with EHDS.</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Okay, so in January we can continue the GDNG discussion immediately after the EHDS discussions so we make sure both are aligned.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> We are meeting next on JAN-12, until then plan to polish the two models and then with Christian for the use-case model.</p>
<h4 id=t10>CRDM/EIT AI Concepts</h4>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Harsh: Unless there are objections we will go ahead with the concepts that we agreed were sensible, and keep the rest as proposed for clarification</p>
<p id=x051 class=summary> no objections ; accepted</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>AOB</h3>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> One of the PhDs in the HARNESS project published a paper on the Data Act in JURIX. Will reach out to them.</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Please also CC me for help. We should have a guide or steps with a template spreadsheet for helping people get started.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x056 class="phone s02"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Resuming after holiday break on [2026-01-07 Wed]</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s03"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s04"><cite>PaulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x060 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JAN-07 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Beatriz will send email to confirm the procedure with LOV maintainers</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Georg, Harsh to discuss NIS2 on incident notifications and assessments asnyc (continued)</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
