<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 15 OCT 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>15 OCT 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251015T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, HarshPandit, IainHenderson, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, TyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>PaulRyan</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Nominating DPVCG chair</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">DPV 2.2.1 fixes</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DPV 2.2 post-release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">CRDM concepts (EU Publications Office AI Taxonomy)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">LEGAL DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">AI Agent</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Plan for additional concepts from EHDS, AI Act, NIS2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Proposal from Georg to map ISO/IEC 42005 AI System Impact Assessment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Proposal from Beatriz to map EU Unfair Consumer Directive</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t11">IEEE P7012</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">Documentation</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t13">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251015T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/<wbr>20251015T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-15">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-15</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-08">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-08</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Nominating DPVCG chair</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0005.html</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389">Issue 389</a></strong> DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary>If you are interested in nominating yourself, please do so as soon as possible so there is sufficient awareness and discussion before we make a decision after OCT-31.</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary>Nomination from Beatriz <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Oct/<wbr>0000.html</a></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Sent email regarding tasks of the chair to help with the process. See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0002.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Oct/<wbr>0002.html</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>DPV 2.2.1 fixes</h3>
<p id=x020 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/391">Issue 391</a></strong> [FIX]: Broken links from Consent Schema page to Consent Guide (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/393">Issue 393</a></strong> [FIX]: Links in v2.2 search page are broken (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> some minor issues with the 2.2 release that should be fixed e.g. broken links in search page, missing info on deprecated concepts, potentially missing OWL files. Propose to fix this and release it as v2.2.1 with tentative date OCT-31</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> agreed to release fixes</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DPV 2.2 post-release</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/364">Issue 364</a></strong> Submit v2.2 to w3c cg repo for normative purls (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353">Issue 353</a></strong> v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> I will talk with Maria Poveda (LOV maintainer) in December to understand how to better integrate all the extensions in LOV</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> LOV task moved to v2.3 release given this timeline.</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Submission of documents to w3c as formal CG reports will now happen with the v2.2.1 fixes to avoid repeated submissions.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>CRDM concepts (EU Publications Office AI Taxonomy)</h3>
<p id=x031 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> analysis done by Harsh, to be reviewed by Delaram <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H3nSZ6Z4GL5ZdaVKrH2\_oZPc8dsRvNg-MiiosZE-qAOo/edit?gid=1828366854\#gid=1828366854">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1H3nSZ6Z4GL5ZdaVKrH2\_oZPc8dsRvNg-MiiosZE-qAOo/<wbr>edit?gid=1828366854\#gid=1828366854</a></p>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> Also relevant for concepts is the analysis of EIT report</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> let's find concepts which are clearly in scope and are established, then we can sit down and discuss the remaining ones which are not clear</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>LEGAL DE-GDNG</h3>
<p id=x037 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x038 class=summary> Julian and Christian are working on this. There are quesions regarding scope as the law references other laws. Suggested to create a core framework and then check which concepts are aligned with those already in DPV. We should focus on providing useful terms/vocabulary rather than legal analysis, so this is fine to be the scope. If the English translation is approximate, then Harsh and Beatriz can also participate.</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s04"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> There are clauses in the law that talks about how other laws should be amended. There are also clauses about medical details etc. so there is discussion on how to handle this in terms of scope. We might come up with a basic set of concepts and then others can suggest to extend these as a baseline.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> EDHS is a good way to look at the scope. We just want to model the regulation, and if there are external concepts and they are absolutely necessary then we only model what is in the GDNG law for the moment.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>AI Agent</h3>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">Issue 197</a></strong> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=x043 class=summary> concepts are accepted</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Plan for additional concepts from EHDS, AI Act, NIS2</h3>
<p id=x045 class=summary> Discussion regarding the scope of this work, especially regarding what should be considered to be involved. Dedicated meetings will be arranged for this going ahead and the list of topics will focus on the existing scope and applications of DPV.</p>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x047 class=summary> Harsh to work on this for reviewing a legal paper</p>
<p id=x048 class=summary> Beatriz to add concepts by OCT-31</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> Harsh will then continue and refine proposal for when Beatriz is back NOV end</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary> Harsh will loop in Julian for alignment with GDNG</p>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x052 class=summary> Georg has proposed reporting obligaitons, Harsh and Georg will work on this in NOV</p>
<p id=x053 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> we have key concepts from Art.3 (definitions). For documentation and reporting on incidents, there are new templates from the Commission. It looks like DPV covers that but there isn't an assessment of what is missing.</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> There are also other obligations like Risk management, Data Governance, that have overlaps with other requirements like from GDPR.</p>
<p id=x056 class=summary> Delaram and Harsh to identify a roadmap for concepts to be added from AI Act to DPV; OCT-29 meeting</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Proposal from Georg to map ISO/IEC 42005 AI System Impact Assessment</h3>
<p id=x058 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 in scope</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1 in scope, need to decide where the concepts should be included in DPV, e.g. integrated in existing extensions or create a new extension. Having  guide for 42005 can be considered later on.</p>
<p id=x060 class=summary> agreed this is in scope with the following discussion: If a standard provides useful information, then we add / refine concepts in DPV and extensions with a reference to that standard as the source. We only create an extention when the standard must be specifically represented, such as for certification, or when we are modelling preliminary concepts such as those for IEEE P7012 to support the standard.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Proposal from Beatriz to map EU Unfair Consumer Directive</h3>
<p id=x062 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/392">Issue 392</a></strong> Extension for the Unfair Contract Terms Directive (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x063 class=summary> Discussed this as the Directive providing concepts more focused on consumer protection (contract law), though there are some helpful concepts that could be of relevance to DPV. For example, we have contract as a legal basis, and contractual relations and terms also affect privacy and data protection. Therefore, from a consumer protection perspective, what vocabulary should be provide here? Harsh suggested guidelines for Directive to get examples of these.</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> goal of this proposal is just to establish if terms connected to personal data protection are in scope of DPV or an extension to DPV. I think most of the work on modelling contractual agreements will be done on an ODRL profile, so the goal is not to have those terms that are not connected to personal data in DPV.</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> majority of terms on the directive are not directly connected with data protection; only the ones that are related to this should be in scope of DPV - these would include more specific types of notices, contracts, organisational measures, etc. Cristiana Santos also has a recent paper on this directive and its alignment with the DSA, that looks at dark patterns, which should be considered.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t11>IEEE P7012</h4>
<p id=x068 class="phone s05"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> P7012 is in the final publication phase. People are thinking about deployment and implementation re. Customer Commons. This is with a consortium with stakeholders like MyData, ODI / Solid.</p>
<p id=x069 class=summary> Discussion on a workshop in November, including DPV extension for supporting this work</p>
<h4 id=t12>Documentation</h4>
<p id=x071 class=summary> Delaram and Beatriz pointed out difficulties in the current documentation format. The following was discussed after the meeting in continuation.</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s03"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> To provide information on how to find and use the extensions, e.g. a Table showing application areas and which extensions are in scope or useful there</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Difficult to find where concepts are e.g. a colleague couldn't find all purposes as they are in DPV, in EHDS, and also in SECTOR-HEALTH.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x075 class=summary> The next meeting will be on OCT-22 Wednesday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST</p>
<p id=x076 class=summary> Agenda for next meeting will be continuing discussion on topics started for v2.3 and any other updates/new proposed topics. The meeting will be chaired by Beatriz Esteves.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
