<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 01 OCT 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>01 OCT 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20251001T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, ChristianDraeger, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, HarshPandit, IainHenderson, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>HarshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Nominating Chair</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Service Maintainence</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Purpose Compatibility for GDPR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Proportionality for GDPR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">CRDM AI taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">AI Agent</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">LEGAL DE-GDNG</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Improving EU law extensions</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t09">EHDS</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">NIS2</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">AI Act</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t12">AOB</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t13">P7012</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">IETF AI Pref Vocab</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t15">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x002 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary> Agenda: <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20251001T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/<wbr>20251001T133000/</a> </p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Persistent ID for current minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-01">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-01</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> Previous minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-01">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-10-01</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Nominating Chair</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389">Issue 389</a></strong> DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Call for nominating DPVCG chair <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2025Sep/<wbr>0005.html</a> (tracking issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389)">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>issues/<wbr>389)</a></p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> It is necessary to have a publicly visible nomination process and therefore any expressions of interest must also come on the public mailing list.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Service Maintainence</h3>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287">Issue 287</a></strong> [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> agree with this but concerns regarding reliance on the structure</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> agree with change, will help map the service and supply chain where the type of service provision can be specified</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s04"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> also helpful for MyTerms</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Provide rationale for change in ServiceProvision concepts and its legal implications</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Purpose Compatibility for GDPR</h3>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298">Issue 298</a></strong> Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Should <code>PurposeCompatibilityAssessment</code> also exist as a concept?</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Colleagues in Belgium are interested in implementing this algorithmically, so this would be beneficial.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> add concepts (GDPR Purpose Compatibility)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Proportionality for GDPR</h3>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386">Issue 386</a></strong> Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Accepted unless there are pressing issues (okay from Stratis and Georg)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>CRDM AI taxonomy</h3>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385">Issue 385</a></strong> Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390">Issue 390</a></strong> Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Also relevant to the EIT taxonomy proposed by Delaram</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s05"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> Don't have definitions for the EIT taxonomy, but its a list of capabilities and types of agents, etc.</p>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">Issue 197</a></strong> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> Would it also involve Agents?</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s05"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> Yes, there are Agents and types of Agents mentioned there.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>AI Agent</h3>
<p id=x040 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">Issue 197</a></strong> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> To review the Agent taxonomy for issues distinguishing between Legal and Machine agents, and accept it otherwise.</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Do we also think of &quot;agency&quot; as a concept?</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> No, because we have representative and legal agent, and then this would be confusing for also using with AI agent, so its better we stick to clear terms and avoid confusion/mixing things.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>LEGAL DE-GDNG</h3>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387">Issue 387</a></strong> Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s07"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> We met and discussed this (with Christian). Challenging to identify concepts in German as we have based work on English before. For now, we are using German labels but these will need to be in English if we decide to have them in both. The term would also have to be in English then.</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> If the jurisdiction benefits from using terms in the native language because this is what will be used by implementers, then that is fine. We can still have English labels and the concepts will be extended from DPV so that others will have context for what the concept is about (e.g. its a security measure)</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> The IRIs should be kep simple and in ASCII and not have special characters when possible. In German, there is a way to transform special characters to ASCII</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s07"><cite>JulianFlake:</cite> yes, e.g. ß = ss, ä = ae</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Improving EU law extensions</h3>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Planning to work on EHDS on October based on work in PACSOI</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Have work on EHDS, will collaborate with Beatriz on this. On the AI Act also have work. For NIS2, there is few work. For DORA also there is work, but not sure whether that is in scope.</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We haven't discussed whether DORA is in scope of DPV, so we should discuss this in context of issue 282 regarding incident and data breach </p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> Also describing categories of organisation</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s05"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> Work on AI Act, and also work in context of the RECITALS project. For NIS2 and others, impact assessments would be part of it, risk management, incident reporting, and other documentation requirements. </p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s05"><cite>DelaramGolpayegani:</cite> Other thing to consider is the guidelines coming from the Commission on prohibited practices and GenAI and the Code of Conduct. There is also the template for GenAI. So there is a lot to cover.</p>
<p id=x057 class=summary> For each regulation, there will be a dedicated working plan with interested participants and the outcomes will be reported back to the group. Interested members should contact the group to be involved.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Organise working groups for improving EU law extensions</p>
<h4 id=t09>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x060 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238">Issue 238</a></strong> Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x061 class=summary> participants: Harsh, Georg, Beatriz, Julian, Christian</p>
<h4 id=t10>NIS2</h4>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x064 class=summary> participants: Harsh, Georg, Art, Delaram, Julio</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s03"><cite>GeorgKrog:</cite> There is work done by Jenny (UCD student) that was submitted to DPV. We should also look at DORA and the cybersec requirements within that.</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> Let's do NIS2 first, and then DORA deciding whether its in scope and adding basic concepts for now</p>
<h4 id=t11>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x068 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x069 class=summary> participants: Harsh, Delaram, Julio, Georg, Art</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>AOB</h3>
<h4 id=t13>P7012</h4>
<p id=x072 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/258">Issue 258</a></strong> Consolidate Purposes into Groups for Simplifying Adoption with P7012 (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s04"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> IEEE P7012 (nickname: MyTerms) -- needs work done on the DPV extension</p>
<p id=x074 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Then we should have a meeting. There is work to be done e.g. on the ODRL parts and on the naming. There are updates for the SolidSymposium next year, which will be around 30th May. I'm involved in organising. This will be helpful to showcase there.</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s04"><cite>IainHenderson:</cite> Yes, talking to Jesse about this.</p>
<h4 id=t14>IETF AI Pref Vocab</h4>
<p id=x077 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/295">Issue 295</a></strong> Concepts to represent AI training is Permitted/Prohibited (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s02"><cite>BeatrizEsteves:</cite> Found this work <a href="https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-aipref-vocab">https://<wbr>datatracker.ietf.org/<wbr>doc/<wbr>html/<wbr>draft-ietf-aipref-vocab</a> which has relevance to DPV and ODRL, so wondering if this is known and anyone is working on this?</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> There is related work as the IETF wants to target this for web crawlers, another one is from Creative Commons called CC Signals. Another one is RSL - Really Simple Licensing from the RSS people <a href="https://rslstandard.org/">https://<wbr>rslstandard.org/</a> </p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s06"><cite>ArthitSuriyawongkul:</cite> The difference is that CC Signals will attach to the work while IETF work will be communicated by the host/servers.</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s01"><cite>HarshPandit:</cite> We should think about modelling such &quot;privacy terms&quot; and currently we do that in P7012 extension to say third party data sharing is prohibited or AI training is prohibited, but we might want to further expand this taxonomy or include it in more prominently.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t15>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x083 class=summary> The next meeting will be on OCT-08 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST</p>
<p id=x084 class=summary> Agenda will be continuation of today's discussion regarding finalising service maintainence, purpose compatibility, and proportionality/necessity, and additional items from v2.3 milestone which have updates. The meeting will be chaired by Beatriz as Harsh will be away at ENDORSE conference.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Provide rationale for change in ServiceProvision concepts and its legal implications</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">add concepts (GDPR Purpose Compatibility)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Accepted unless there are pressing issues (okay from Stratis and Georg)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">To review the Agent taxonomy for issues distinguishing between Legal and Machine agents, and accept it otherwise.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Organise working groups for improving EU law extensions</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
