16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, MaryamMohammadi, StratisKoulierakis, JulianFlake, TyttiRintamaki, ArthitSuriyawongkul, JulioHernandez, HarshPandit
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: PaulRyan
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 15 OCT 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251015T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251015T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-15
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-08
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Nominating DPVCG chair
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> See https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389 -> Issue 389 DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> If you are interested in nominating yourself, please do so as soon as possible so there is sufficient awareness and discussion before we make a decision after OCT-31.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Nomination from Beatriz https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0000.html
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Sent email regarding tasks of the chair to help with the process. See https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0002.html
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: CRDM concepts (EU Publications Office AI Taxonomy)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ analysis done by Harsh, to be reviewed by Delaram https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H3nSZ6Z4GL5ZdaVKrH2\_oZPc8dsRvNg-MiiosZE-qAOo/edit?gid=1828366854\#gid=1828366854
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: LEGAL DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Julian and Christian are working on this. There are quesions regarding scope as the law references other laws. Suggested to create a core framework and then check which concepts are aligned with those already in DPV. We should focus on providing useful terms/vocabulary rather than legal analysis, so this is fine to be the scope. If the English translation is approximate, then Harsh and Beatriz can also participate.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AI Agent
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197 -> Issue 197 Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ concepts are accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Plan for additional concepts from EHDS, AI Act, NIS2
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Discussion regarding the scope of this work, especially regarding what should be considered to be involved. Dedicated meetings will be arranged for this going ahead and the list of topics will focus on the existing scope and applications of DPV.
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222 -> Issue 222 Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229 -> Issue 229 Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Proposal from Georg to map ISO/IEC 42005 AI System Impact Assessment
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed this is in scope with the following discussion: If a standard provides useful information, then we add / refine concepts in DPV and extensions with a reference to that standard as the source. We only create an extention when the standard must be specifically represented, such as for certification, or when we are modelling preliminary concepts such as those for IEEE P7012 to support the standard.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Proposal from Beatriz to map EU Unfair Consumer Directive
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/392 -> Issue 392 Extension for the Unfair Contract Terms Directive (by besteves4)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Discussed this as the Directive providing concepts more focused on consumer protection (contract law), though there are some helpful concepts that could be of relevance to DPV. For example, we have contract as a legal basis, and contractual relations and terms also affect privacy and data protection. Therefore, from a consumer protection perspective, what vocabulary should be provide here? Harsh suggested guidelines for Directive to get examples of these.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Documentation (AOB)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Delaram and Beatriz pointed out difficulties in the current documentation format. The following was discussed after the meeting in continuation.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: To provide information on how to find and use the extensions, e.g. a Table showing application areas and which extensions are in scope or useful there
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Difficult to find where concepts are e.g. a colleague couldn't find all purposes as they are in DPV, in EHDS, and also in SECTOR-HEALTH.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on OCT-22 Wednesday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda for next meeting will be continuing discussion on topics started for v2.3 and any other updates/new proposed topics. The meeting will be chaired by Beatriz Esteves.