16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: BeatrizEsteves
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit, JulianFlake, FabianLinde, TyttiRintamaki, RuhiAnandFinn, ArthitSuriyawongkul, ChristianDraeger, ElenaMolino, GabrielaKurteva, IainHenderson, MarlinKisia, StratisKoulierakis, PaulRyan,GeorgKrog, DelaramGolpayegani
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: None
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 11 FEB 2026
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260211T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260211T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-11
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-04
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Admin
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Submit to LOV
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353 -> Issue 353 v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: what is the format for this? do we know? E.g. do we give IRI, link to turtle file, title, list of authors (they are there in the RDF)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Generate CSVs for v2.2 and v2.3. Check for v2.2 with the LOV maintainers if this is okay while v2.3 is in draft mode, then we send the update for v2.3
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Harsh to produce LOV spreadsheet for v2.2
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPV v2.3 release schedule
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ (we are waiting for EHDS, GDNG, and IEEE 7012 – see later discussions) 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ okay to complete the pending items by tomorrow and then have the draft release; ask people to review until the next meeting to make a decision on finalising the publishing the release
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: w3id updates
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/425 -> Issue 425 w3id updates needed for v2.3 (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ see issue comment
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: see PR ; needs review and there's an open question on IEEE 7012 namespace; added redirects for older versions i.e. v2.1 and v2.2 will still go to standards/p7012 and the new one will go to standards/ieee/7012
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: what to do with ODRL agreements? Do this in v2.4?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: Yes, okay to do this in v2.4.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Harsh to review w3id config
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Harsh to move folder w3id from master to dev branch
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.3
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: ISO mapping
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26 -> Issue 26 DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: propose we have draft release tomorrow; review and finalise in next week's meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> TyttiRintamaki: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: w3id should work here
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: HTML and RDF mapping, possible to add more ISO concepts e.g. 27000 series in the future here without new extensions or namespaces
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: what is the meaning of a draft release?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: means we are still working it, and there may be breaking changes in the future. Same thing we are doing with the EHDS
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: so this is just for the extension (mapping) and not the whole release
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agree to publish mapping as draft
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: GDPR concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386 -> Issue 386 Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298 -> Issue 298 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ has been confirmed in previous meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Use Stratis's correct name for acknowledgement
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: contributors to check name and provide affiliation and funding acknowledgements if relevant
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agree to publish GDPR extension
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: EU EHDS
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/299 -> Issue 299 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for EHDS (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: changes discussed in last meeting; concepts are in the spreadsheet for EHDS
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: for Health Sector these are new concepts so these should be copied from working spreadsheets to DPVCG spreadsheets
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: So we copy concepts, then download and generate RDF and HTML
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Do we add any documentation in HTML?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Can do this for these changes via a PR
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Copy concepts for EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH to DPVCG spreadsheets - Harsh & Beatriz
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Update EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH extensions with new concepts - Harsh & Beatriz
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add documentation for EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH - Beatriz
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ timeline - complete by tomorrow
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agree to publish EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: AI extension
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390 -> Issue 390 Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197 -> Issue 197 Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: reviewed with Delaram - accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agree to publish AI 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: AI Act 
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/300 -> Issue 300 Model Intended Purpose Compatibility statuses for AI Act (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294 -> Issue 294 AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: reviewed with Delaram - accepted (show mapping to DPV – propose we do something similar for GDPR and other laws in the next release)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: three new major changes 1) mapping from AI Act to DPV 2) AI system concepts represent high-risk and prohibited systems 3) instances representing high-risk systems in Annex I and III and prohibited systems in Art.5
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: FIX Art.6-2 definition refers to 6-1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agree to publish AI Act
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: have provided an update with the HTML and updated diagrams etc. as the PR ; ready to be merged
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: we saw in the AI act that there are refereneces to articles in the IRI, should this be done?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we only do these for important concepts that are tied to the legal identifiers or clause numbers e.g. legal basis in GDPR
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: also for the rights and justifications in GDPR
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: We concluded it is necessary to add some numbers in IRI
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: okay to do this and change in future version as this is a draft
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: need further work on parent types e.g. needs a review to suggest correct parent types
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: (commend on quality of concepts and documentation -- good to follow for future extensions even if they are draft)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Merge GDNG PR as draft extension
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: IEEE 7012 / MyTerms
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/413 -> Issue 413 Ensure P7012 concepts extend core DPV concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/423 -> Issue 423 Change `P7012` to `IEEE 7012` (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: should this be kept as release considering things are still being finalised from Iain's side (see today's email). ODRL concepts and agreements are also pending.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ +1 from Harsh and Beatriz to finalise this in v2.4
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: event at the end of January for the launch of MyTerms went well ; event was recorded if anyone wants to see it. Now we are focusing on practical aspects, which involves setting up "MyTerms alliance", which includes IEEE, Customer Commons, MyData Global. Also interested is Inrupt (Solid). So we're forming this alliance as Phase 1 and we'll know more of what it means in practice. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: We're working with IEEE to develop accredition, training, and trust maps for support in implementing the standard. MyData will have a meeting in Brussels in April likely. Also talking to Solid community and Jessie/ODI.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agree to provide more concrete ODRL agreements, concepts, and guidance in v2.4
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Usability
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Show refine index in main DPV spec – list is only shown on demand. Is this acceptable?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: looks good, my idea was that we have a list of modules and under that the list of concepts in that module which is expanded when a concept is selected
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: looks good, we should also ask people to take a look -- especially new people 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agree to continue with this layout
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Fix module links (broken in some cases) - Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Locations
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341 -> Issue 341 Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342 -> Issue 342 Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Based on discussions on location concepts, have added concepts for Home, Work, and Current Location to PD, and marked all location concepts as instances of `dpv:Location`. Same for TECH extension - marked existing data storage and processing as locations. We agreed to this after length discussions the last time around, and we pushed these concepts from 2.0 to 2.1 then to 2.2.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: this is good to have for developing technologies; this needs to be expanded case by case
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: need to review this as a device as a location is not accurate
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: a device as a location means its a virtual location, so its a concept in the same sense that you say data is being stored on a server in EU, or its stored on your phone. So the phone is a location for storing data locally. This is the common use reflected in the concept.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: for TECH, the concepts are also marked as `ProcessingLocation` and `StorageLocation` for making this clear.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Julian (and others) to review this
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.4
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> proposed work program https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/10 -- review and indicate interest to be involved in the work
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on FEB-18 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET