16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, JulianFlake, IainHenderson, BeatrizEsteves, ChristianDraeger, PaulRyan, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, ArthitSuriyawongkul, JulioHernandez
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: 
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 01 OCT 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20251001T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20251001T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-01
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-01
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Nominating Chair
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389 -> Issue 389 DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Call for nominating DPVCG chair https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html (tracking issue https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ It is necessary to have a publicly visible nomination process and therefore any expressions of interest must also come on the public mailing list.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Service Maintainence
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287 -> Issue 287 [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: agree with this but concerns regarding reliance on the structure
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: agree with change, will help map the service and supply chain where the type of service provision can be specified
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: also helpful for MyTerms
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Provide rationale for change in ServiceProvision concepts and its legal implications
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Purpose Compatibility for GDPR
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298 -> Issue 298 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Should `PurposeCompatibilityAssessment` also exist as a concept?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Colleagues in Belgium are interested in implementing this algorithmically, so this would be beneficial.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: add concepts (GDPR Purpose Compatibility)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Proportionality for GDPR
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386 -> Issue 386 Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Accepted unless there are pressing issues (okay from Stratis and Georg)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: CRDM AI taxonomy
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390 -> Issue 390 Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Also relevant to the EIT taxonomy proposed by Delaram
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: Don't have definitions for the EIT taxonomy, but its a list of capabilities and types of agents, etc.
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197 -> Issue 197 Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: Would it also involve Agents?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: Yes, there are Agents and types of Agents mentioned there.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AI Agent
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197 -> Issue 197 Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: To review the Agent taxonomy for issues distinguishing between Legal and Machine agents, and accept it otherwise.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: Do we also think of "agency" as a concept?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: No, because we have representative and legal agent, and then this would be confusing for also using with AI agent, so its better we stick to clear terms and avoid confusion/mixing things.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: LEGAL DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: We met and discussed this (with Christian). Challenging to identify concepts in German as we have based work on English before. For now, we are using German labels but these will need to be in English if we decide to have them in both. The term would also have to be in English then.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: If the jurisdiction benefits from using terms in the native language because this is what will be used by implementers, then that is fine. We can still have English labels and the concepts will be extended from DPV so that others will have context for what the concept is about (e.g. its a security measure)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: The IRIs should be kep simple and in ASCII and not have special characters when possible. In German, there is a way to transform special characters to ASCII
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: yes, e.g. ß = ss, ä = ae
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Improving EU law extensions
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Planning to work on EHDS on October based on work in PACSOI
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: Have work on EHDS, will collaborate with Beatriz on this. On the AI Act also have work. For NIS2, there is few work. For DORA also there is work, but not sure whether that is in scope.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: We haven't discussed whether DORA is in scope of DPV, so we should discuss this in context of issue 282 regarding incident and data breach 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: Also describing categories of organisation
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: Work on AI Act, and also work in context of the RECITALS project. For NIS2 and others, impact assessments would be part of it, risk management, incident reporting, and other documentation requirements. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: Other thing to consider is the guidelines coming from the Commission on prohibited practices and GenAI and the Code of Conduct. There is also the template for GenAI. So there is a lot to cover.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ For each regulation, there will be a dedicated working plan with interested participants and the outcomes will be reported back to the group. Interested members should contact the group to be involved.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Organise working groups for improving EU law extensions
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: EHDS
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ participants: Harsh, Georg, Beatriz, Julian, Christian
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: NIS2
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222 -> Issue 222 Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ participants: Harsh, Georg, Art, Delaram, Julio
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: There is work done by Jenny (UCD student) that was submitted to DPV. We should also look at DORA and the cybersec requirements within that.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Let's do NIS2 first, and then DORA deciding whether its in scope and adding basic concepts for now
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: AI Act
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229 -> Issue 229 Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ participants: Harsh, Delaram, Julio, Georg, Art
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: P7012
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/258 -> Issue 258 Consolidate Purposes into Groups for Simplifying Adoption with P7012 (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: IEEE P7012 (nickname: MyTerms) -- needs work done on the DPV extension
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Then we should have a meeting. There is work to be done e.g. on the ODRL parts and on the naming. There are updates for the SolidSymposium next year, which will be around 30th May. I'm involved in organising. This will be helpful to showcase there.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: Yes, talking to Jesse about this.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: IETF AI Pref Vocab
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/295 -> Issue 295 Concepts to represent AI training is Permitted/Prohibited (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Found this work https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-aipref-vocab which has relevance to DPV and ODRL, so wondering if this is known and anyone is working on this?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: There is related work as the IETF wants to target this for web crawlers, another one is from Creative Commons called CC Signals. Another one is RSL - Really Simple Licensing from the RSS people https://rslstandard.org/ 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: The difference is that CC Signals will attach to the work while IETF work will be communicated by the host/servers.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: We should think about modelling such "privacy terms" and currently we do that in P7012 extension to say third party data sharing is prohibited or AI training is prohibited, but we might want to further expand this taxonomy or include it in more prominently.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on OCT-08 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be continuation of today's discussion regarding finalising service maintainence, purpose compatibility, and proportionality/necessity, and additional items from v2.3 milestone which have updates. The meeting will be chaired by Beatriz as Harsh will be away at ENDORSE conference.
