16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: JulianFlake, HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: JulianFlake
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, BeatrizEsteves, JulioHernandez, JulianFlake, TyttiRintamaki, StratisKoulierakis
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 12 JUN 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250612T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250612T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-06-12
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Representing Use-Cases
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284 -> Issue 284 [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ continued discussion
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ previous discussion: issue with "Use-Case" as a term as it implies users, interactions, etc. based on its use in software/systems engineering domains; we discussed alternatives such as scenario, policy, etc.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Alternate proposal
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ refined proposal https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/use-cases-02
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Method 1: we continue using dpv:Process e.g. hasRecommendedProcess
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Method 2: we continue using dpv:Rule e.g. hasRecommendation
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ For Intended and Acceptable concepts, we should use something else as these are interpretations or findings and not instructions in the same deontic set as others (e.g. recommendation = SHOULD, deterred = SHOULD NOT). We continue using tech:IntendedUse as it is defined, and we change the parent of eu-aiact:IntendedPurpose from dpv:Purpose to tech:IntendedUse. We add two "policy" concepts under the tech/org Policy concept for representing AcceptableUsePolicy and UnacceptableUsePolicy. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ In documentation, we can then specify these directly by using the relations, e.g. for a given ex:Document rdf:type tech:Documentation, we can have: `dpv:hasRecommendation dpv:Recommendation (+ e.g. dpv:Process)` and `dpv:hasProhibition dpv:Prohibition (+ e.g. dpv:Process)`, `tech:hasIntendedUse tech:IntendedUse (+ e.g. dpv:Process)`, `eu-aiact:hasIntendedPurpose eu-aiact:IntendedPurpose (+ e.g. dpv:Process)`;
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Pros of doing this - we keep using our existing concepts and don't introduce new concepts as the discussion has shown that we do not have a consensus on the meanings and interpretations which is essential, and we don't have to update any of our guides or documentations as the core concepts have not changed. Cons - we don't use the exact same terms as others e.g. Acceptable Use. To specify these, we define these as RISK concepts to indicate their involvement as a consequence of something i.e. I assess a process and find it unacceptable and similarly for unintended. Note: Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) is the widely and formally used term and "Acceptable Use" is the same term with a different phrasing in most contexts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Discussion
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ Discussion of the different concepts around Permissions,  Prohibitions, Obligations.
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ Current suggestion is to have 5 different concepts corresponding  to: must, should, may, should not, must not. (comment for the  notes: this list refers to RFC2119)
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ Concepts should probably not be suffixed with any term discussed  last week (Use, Usage, UsePolicy, Process, etc.). The focus  should be on the first part of  e.g. "Prohibited(Use(Case))". Therefore concepts should be  expressed by non-composite terms, if possible.
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ Intention, Recommendation are additional concepts that require  appropriate terms.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Operating Factors / Environment
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285 -> Issue 285 [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ As proposed previously, for DPV 2.2, we are adding: `tech:OperatingFactor` and `tech:hasOperatingFactor` with definition as a factor that affects or influences the operation of the technology; `tech:OperatingEnvironment` and `tech:hasOperatingEnvironment` with definition as the environment (whether physical or virtual) within which the technology operates
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ no new discussions
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Secondary Use
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283 -> Issue 283 [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ As proposed previously, for DPV 2.2, we are adding:
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ `dpv:ReuseCompatibility` with `dpv:hasReuseCompatibility`, and then `dpv:PrimaryUse â€“ use is as per the primary context/goal` with `dpv:PrimaryInitialUse` - use defines the initial or first primary use and is the basis for future comparisons of compatibility; `dpv:PrimaryCompatibleReuse` - use has a different context but is compatible with the primary initial use; with `dpv:SecondaryUse` - use is not compatible with the primary use.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Question: do we add extended concepts from these for the regulations now in DPV 2.2 or later in DPV 2.3? (did not discuss below concepts)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ for GDPR: Purpose Compatibility (defined in guidelines) we have `eu-gdpr:PurposeCompatibility` (parent: `dpv:ReuseCompatibility`), `eu-gdpr:PurposeCompatible` (parent: `dpv:PrimaryUse`), `eu-gdpr:PurposeIncompatible` (parent: dpv:`SecondaryUse`)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ for AI Act: Intended Purpose Compatibility (mentioned but not defined e.g. see Art.3-23 substantial modification and Art.3-13 reasonably foreseeable misuse) we have `eu-aiact:IntendedPurposeCompatibility`, `eu-aiact:IntendedPurposeCompatible`, `eu-aiact:IntendedPurposeIncompaible`
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ for EHDS: Secondary Use (defined in law e.g. Chapter IV Secondary Use) we have `eu-ehds:ReuseCompatibility`, `eu-ehds:PrimaryUse`, `eu-ehds:SecondaryUse`
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ no updates for following items on agenda: TAIR (AI Act concepts), P7012, ODRL, EHDS, DPIA
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on JUN-19 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be finalising DPV v2.2 scope and release, and starting work on v2.3
