16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, JulianFlake, RuhiFinnAnand, GabrielaKurteva, ArthitSuriyawongkul, ElenaMolino, MarlinKinsia, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki, DelaramGolpayegani
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 28 JAN 2026
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260128T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260128T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-28
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-21
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Admin
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPVCG Charter
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399 -> Issue 399 Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ ** DPVCG Charter approved and in effect from today**
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Submit to LOV
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353 -> Issue 353 v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: directly provide v2.3 as we are close to the release, test with maintainers that the spreadsheet is correct in the interim
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPV v2.3 release schedule
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: propose that we have a draft published FEB-02, then I do direct meeting with reviewers till FEB-06 to identify issues, and then we release FEB-11.
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: pending technical issue with w3id for DPV concepts as they are now in modules, so the only solution I can find is to use javascript to redirect -- which is a bit slow but may work
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: volunteers to help with review 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> PaulRyan: am away / on holidays so won't be available
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/299 -> Issue 299 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for EHDS (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: okay for EU-EHDS and DE-GDNG (TUE 09:00 CET). Other members include: Beatriz, Julian, Harsh, Gabriela, Georg
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390 -> Issue 390 Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/300 -> Issue 300 Model Intended Purpose Compatibility statuses for AI Act (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294 -> Issue 294 AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197 -> Issue 197 Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: okay for AI Act & AI (WED 16:00 WET). Other members include: Delaram, Harsh, Georg, Ruhi, Julian (new), Art (new)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/420 -> Issue 420 [FIX]: DPV logo broken in 404 page (by bact)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/411 -> Issue 411 Add contributor acknowledgements (by besteves4)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/405 -> Issue 405 [FIX]: Font size in index and 404 pages is probably too small (by bact)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: okay usability, 404, homepage (WED 14:30 WET)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: for NIS2 - members are Georg, Harsh, Ruhi, Gabriela, Art (new)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed on schedule and review process
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386 -> Issue 386 Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298 -> Issue 298 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: review EU-GDPR updates with Stratis, Georg (and Ruhi (new))
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341 -> Issue 341 Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342 -> Issue 342 Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: review locations in other extensions -- PD and TECH with Julian
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287 -> Issue 287 [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: review maintainance purpose with Beatriz 
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26 -> Issue 26 DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: review ISO concepts and structure with Stratis
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Harsh to finalise drafts and circulate them by FEB-02
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Harsh to conduct review meetings with members ; report back FEB-04
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Finalise and aim to publish by FEB-11
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: should I add the folder structure and define the namespace for this?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: we can consider to add this as a draft to say we are working on this, and the draft contains the 25 concepts we have now; will discuss with Christian about this; next step is to say what term is used in what process of the research process
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: also technical challenges around translations as we have German concepts/labels; there was code for this which is commented out
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: ready draft document with concepts and HTML generated with German labels
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Julian to create a PR or a branch in the repo for DE-GDNG 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: issue with the hierarchy table not working (will create Issue with example on this)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/416 -> Issue 416 [NEW]: sector-health:DataUser + sector-health:DataHolder (by nuthub)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/415 -> Issue 415 [NEW]: Data Supplier / Data Origin (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: Concepts DataHolder and DataUser in GDND need parent concepts in SECTOR-Health which don't exist, proposed in Issue #416 ; these concepts are also present in EU-EHDS but they are not the same and that's why we need a parent concept; same for Secondary Use
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: working with Christian ; and also trying to generate the HTML
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: W3C Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: had a meeting with Ian from W3C where they are working on better supporting the CGs. We shared DPVCG updates, explore potential for WG - we have another meeting with W3C in a month, will update on things
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Beatriz and Harsh to review WG guidance and options, then discuss with the group
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: IEEE 7012 / MyTerms
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Standard is now open access https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2025.11360682
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ MyTerms launch later today https://mytermswebinar.eventbrite.com/ 16:00 WET / 17:00 CET
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ MyTerms website https://myterms.info/
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/413 -> Issue 413 Ensure P7012 concepts extend core DPV concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/423 -> Issue 423 Change `P7012` to `IEEE 7012` (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: References DPV (though an older version) as an example for implementing Machine Readable Privacy Terms (as in contracts). To be checked with Iain.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: 404 reported in module links
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/417 -> Issue 417 Latest published version results in 404 (by TimvdLippe)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Change Management / Data Versioning
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/418 -> Issue 418 Change Management / Data Versioning (by apowers313)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: new issue on github, what looks to be lead of data privacy from Amazon, asking about use of DPV for change or version management and some link to regulations but it isn't clear to me what it is about
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: Looks like its about some data or document having some version before a regulation, or to keep track of changes for regulations
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: thanks, we've asked for clarification on the issue
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Signals
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/410 -> Issue 410 Represent Privacy Signals like GPC, ADPC, and others (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: This is a topic about how we can represent signals using DPVCG concepts, as this is something relevant to current developments e.g. GPC is on standardisation track at W3C; and GDPR Article 88b has proposed consent manager which would require representation of these. Will be working on these for the next release.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on FEB-04 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET