16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, StratisKoulierakis, GeorgKrog, PaulRyan, MarkLizar, ArthitSuriyawongkul, DelaramGolpayegani, JulioHernandez
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: TyttiRintamaki
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 29 MAY 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250529T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250529T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-05-29
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: identified concepts from EHDS and AI Act for DPV, with EHDS concepts in spreadsheet (shared) and AI Act concepts to be added to spreadsheet
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Harsh to review EHDS concepts, Stratis to also review
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: For the AI Act, we have existing concepts from Delaram's work on AIRO and VAIR which have been integrated into the AI and AI Act DPV extensions. There is more work from the TAIR project https://tair.adaptcentre.ie/ which would be helpful to avoid duplication and to use resources developed by DPVCG members.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Julio and Delaram to share work done in TAIR with Georg and Harsh, and then consolidate with Georg's proposal for AI Act so we don't repeat work
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: Sebastian Hellensleben shared work in CEN/CENELEC on standards for AI Act https://www.linkedin.com/posts/sebastianhallensleben_jtc21-status-dashboard-activity-7331425771237826560--xX8 â€“ would be interesting for the group to map these
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: (continued) https://www.linkedin.com/posts/activity-7332406233150164993-NfOw link to standards in detail â€“ see vocabulary
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: standards â€“ 22989 same (EN), look at concepts and whether they are in scope, how to align with DPV, etc. lifecycle ones should be of interest to look at
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: are we modelling all of these?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we have some of these, but others we need to think of how to model as they sometimes have multiple uses and definitions
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakis: to what degree are we looking for conformity with the AI Act? e.g. the word intended for intended purpose in Art.6, whereas we also have "intended to be used as safety component"
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: as much as possible as we have the AI Act where such terms can be defined, so if something is defined in the AI Act then we keep it as phrased in the act as much as we can
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Representing Use-Cases
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284 -> Issue 284 [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ continued discussion
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussing https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/use-cases-01 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we have dpv:UseCase and dpv:hasUseCase (we have agreement on these in principle) and we are now discussing hierarchy of potential categories of use-cases with `dpv:UseCase` as parent. Question: what categories of use-cases should we additionally define?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ below is outcome of discussion and voting using document
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ deontic / normative categorisations -- acceptable, permitted, recommended, deterred, and prohibited have 3 votes
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Acceptable ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Permitted (MAY) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Recommended (SHOULD) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Required (MUST) ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Tolerated (MAY NOT) ğŸ‘ one vote ğŸ‘ no votes; Unacceptable ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; Deterred (SHOULD NOT) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Prohibited (MUST NOT) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ teleological -- intended and unintended have 3 votes
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Intended (deontically Acceptable) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Unintended ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Question: how to model Intended Purpose in AI Act with the above? -- extending a core concept in DPV is preferred with 3 votes
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ by extending dpv:UseCase ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; by extending dpv:IntendedUseCase ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Next week discuss these most voted concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Operating Factors / Environment
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285 -> Issue 285 [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Why are we modelling these? Laws, like GDPR, EHDS, and Cybersecurity Act require description of how the technology functions. However, these are yet to be explained clearly in terms of guidance and case law. Therefore, we are trying to model things in preparation for eventual clarity. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Discussion on scope of these concepts: Let's discuss this, but keep these as proposed  ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes; Let's add these now, revise later  ğŸ‘ no votes ğŸ‘ no votes
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Question: Do we provide tech:OperatingEnvironment? ğŸ‘ 4 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; defined as the environment (physical and virtual) within which the technology operates or will operate. This includes possibly everything that could be relevant, including location, data, people, machinery (other tech), etc. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Do we model more specific environments like physical, virtual, how technology is set up, how it is placed in relation to surroundings? ğŸ‘ no votes ğŸ‘ 3 votes  
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Do we provide tech:OperatingFactor? ğŸ‘ 4 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; defined as a factor which influences the operation of the technology, and also as parts of the technology and of the environment which affect the technology i.e. they are a "factor" in relation to the technology's operations
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Do we model more specific categories of operating factors? ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ If yes, which categories? (shown in hierarchy)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Requirements oriented: Required ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  ; Optional ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  ; 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Effect oriented: Suitable ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (is okay to have); Ideal (gives optimal results) ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (may involve optional factors as well as necessary factors); Unsuitable ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (is not okay to have); Problematic (gives problematic results) ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; Untested ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Relation between factors and existing concepts like data, processing, technology, etc. https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/tech-operating-factors#Sec3 gives a list of existing properties in DPV and how they relate to the Factor concept. idea: we provide categories of factors (as above) to describe their relation to the operation i.e. required, suitable etc. and then the existing properties describe the factor in more detail e.g. tech has required factor as specific categories of data; e.g. tech has ideal factor â€“ where the factor is described using 1) specific categories of data 2) from specific sources and 2) which has quality assurance (org measure). In the above, we are still describing "data" as a factor, as in it is a single thing, and therefore this is distinct from an use-case
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Conclusions: We see value in providing information about factors and how they relate to the technology and where / whether they are suitable, but do not yet have clarity on how these should be modelled or how these will work with other concepts.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Secondary Use
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283 -> Issue 283 [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ continued discussion
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussing https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/secondary-uses 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Question: what should we call the top concept for this? dpv:CompatibilityOfUse ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes (has "of" which we avoid if we can); dpv:Compatibility ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (will need compatible/incompatible concepts); dpv:ReuseCompatibility ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes  (can imply only reuse/secondary) -- most preferred option
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Question: what concepts should we model (shown in hierarchy)? dpv:PrimaryUse ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:PrimaryInitialUse ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:PrimaryCompatibleReuse ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:SecondaryUse (incompatible with primary) ğŸ‘ 3 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:SecondaryContextualReuse ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes ; dpv:TertiaryUse (secondary + different context) ğŸ‘ 2 votes ğŸ‘ no votes -- 3+ votes are accepted for continued discussion, rest need to be clarified
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on JUN-05 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be EHDS concepts led by Georg, and continued discussions from today on use-case categories, operating factors, and secondary use concepts
