16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, ArthitSuriyawongkul, JulioHernandez, TyttiRintamaki, DelaramGolpayegani, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis, GeorgKrog
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: BeatrizEsteves, JulianFlake
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 13 AUG 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250813T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250813T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-08-13
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Note change in meeting link
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.2
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/301 -> Issue 301 dpv 2.2 draft review (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Beta release
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed to release a beta version as before following changes/fixes
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Rule Fulfilment 
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/351 -> Issue 351 DPV Rule Fulfilment Status - naming and alignment with ODRL (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Proposed concepts (see issue #351)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: agreed
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: okay from Beatriz offline (email/github)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed on concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Agents
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: (paraphrased) use of Agents to perform tasks in workflows
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: better to call it AgenticAISystem if its to be a subclass of AI System
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: how is this different from AI Agent? For an Agent, you specify some goals or response to conditions and it goes off to do the work without response from the user. For my Agentic AI is that you define goals or results but not the how to achieve that, but the user is still waiting e.g. for an hour. So there is an element for waiting for the response.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Agentic AI involves use of AI agents to execute tools/workflows
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: so in thise sense Agentic is an adjective to the AI System to state AI agents are being used to achieve the tasks
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ next steps: look for normative definitions, otherwise discuss only adding the basic concepts for the vocabulary without additional specifics for v2.3
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AI Development Phases
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294 -> Issue 294 AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: these are not well defined/standardised as compared to the ISO 5338 lifecycle; so should we model them and how do we select the concept?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: depends on which steps you want to take to develop the model; Should these concepts also consider whether it is a GenAI model and what are the steps to integrate that into the organisation
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: these are processes as they involve e.g. data collection  ...
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: will this include the domain or user etc. before data collection. This is like a requirement.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: This is like requirements engineering in software development. How much of the lifecycle do we want to consider, and how many names/labels we want to include for different stages. This could be useful for looking at the value chain and seeing who is involved and when/where. E.g. to see who was involved in the earlier stages and tracing what happened/who is responsible. E.g. using PROV-O.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: sounds like the concepts are useful; so should these be done as part of existing lifecycle https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.2/ai/#vocab-lifecycle or separately?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: makes sense to start with lifecycle and see if it fits and then look for a different place if not; this will be helpful for the data governance and implementation of the AI Act
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: reason to think about this is that the previous Biden gov executive order required documentation about stakeholders during the development of the AI requirements procedures; though this executive order is no longer around
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: option to go for a sub-extension of AI for lifecycle
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: no, because this fits in AI
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ next steps: develop a proposal based on ISO 5338 and aligned with common terminology used in AI domain
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Use-Cases and Examples
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/12 -> Issue 12 Use-Cases and Examples showing how vocab can be used (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussing making use-cases and examples being documented a necessary step for adding any new concept (continued discussion)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakis: what counts as an example?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: e.g. data collection involves purpose, data subject e.g. customer, processing collect, etc.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakis: and are these external examples from another source or created here to show how the vocabulary is used?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: the latter, these are the descriptions and examples in RDF showing in the HTML documents
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted to make use-cases and examples a requirement for all new concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Development code
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/137 -> Issue 137 Move code for document/minute generation to another branch (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted changes to repo (moving code generator to dev branch) 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Contribution Guidelines
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: added external contribution section to contribution guide on Wiki https://github.com/w3c/dpv/wiki/Contribution-Guide#guidelines-for-accepting-non-authoritative-contributions 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPVCG referenced in EU policy
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: detected reference/mention of DPVCG from 2020--2025 in the EU's Interoperability Europe documents referring to "Rolling ICT Standardisation". DPVCG is the only CG mentioned, along with ODRL as a standard. This means we are the state of the art for this topic and area! https://interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/collection/rolling-plan-ict-standardisation/rolling-plan-2025 see ePrivacy (RP2025) and Data Economy (RP 2025)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Metadata Fields
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/359 -> Issue 359 [NEW]: Add versioning/deprecation information (by bact)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: meta fields like `availableSinceVersion`, `deprecatedInVersion`, `supercededBy` -- if they are useful/ worth the effort to have it e.g. within the metadata of the concept in RDF and shown in HTML; superceded by is provided in schema.org
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we have had cases or risks that the concepts are deprecated and people still use it because it is present; one option 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ next steps: Art and Harsh will discuss this for v2.3
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on AUG-20 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be finalising DPV v2.2 beta release, and starting work on v2.3 -- with a preference to identify topics for discussion where materials/arguments exist and so that we can revist what needs to be done for them. 