16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <BeatrizEsteves> Scribe: BeatrizEsteves
16:15:47 <BeatrizEsteves> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <BeatrizEsteves> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <BeatrizEsteves> Chair: BeatrizEsteves
16:16:51 <BeatrizEsteves> Present: BeatrizEsteves, JulianFlake, ArthitSuriyawongkul, PaulRyan
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Regrets: HarshPandit, DelaramGolpayegani
16:17:14 <BeatrizEsteves> Date: 22 OCT 2025
16:17:28 <BeatrizEsteves> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251022T133000/
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251022T133000/ 
16:17:37 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-22
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-15
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Topic: Nominating DPVCG chair
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> See https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389 -> Issue 389 DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> ArthitSuriyawongkul: I would like to nominate myself for the role of maintainer (not chair/co-chair).
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: A good idea would be to reply to the email Harsh sent on the chair/maintainer tasks (https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0002.html). Beatriz will do the same for the tasks she would like to take on as co-chair.
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> ArthitSuriyawongkul: Should the process of selecting maintainers be a separate process from the chair nomination?
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: +1 on deciding for both roles during the same window (after the waiting period until OCT-31)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Topic: Fixes to DPV 2.2 (as DPV 2.2.1)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ broken links in search page, missing info on deprecated concepts, potentially missing OWL files; tentative date OCT-31
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Topic: DPV 2.2 post-release tasks
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ some tasks will not be completed now ( see LOV issue below)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Topic: Add a red box warning for older DPV versions
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/396 -> Issue 396 Add a red box warning for older DPV versions (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ This will point people to the latest version and tell this this version is outdated. See example https://www.w3.org/TR/2013/PR-prov-o-20130312/. We initiate this procedure as part of release process where all past versions get this box.
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: +1
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> ArthitSuriyawongkul: +1
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> JulianFlake: +1
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> PaulRyan: +1
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Topic: Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Harsh initial simplification proposal at https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: +1
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> ArthitSuriyawongkul: +1
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> JulianFlake: +1
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> PaulRyan: +1
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Topic: v2.2 LOV submission
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353 -> Issue 353 v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: This is a good practice for ontology evaluation, e.g., FOOPS etc.
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: DPV 2.2 core is already in LOV, however there is not an easy solution to submit all the extensions that we have, without haing to do it all manually. So we are thinking together with the LOV maintainers how to automate this process, also for the sake of doing it for future versions.
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: I will discuss this with one of the LOV maintainers in the first week of December
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> JulianFlake: is there an alternative to LOV that we can/should publish to? and in a more automated way?
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> ArthitSuriyawongkul: I actually want to make a submission to LOV for another project: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1272 . Love to hear that it is sort of active (by volunteers)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Topic: Roadmap for Guides
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/242 -> Issue 242 Provide Guides for Supporting Adoption & Use of DPV (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: Priority is to finish off some of the currently proposed guides by the release of 2.3
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ see current issues for guides: https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20guide
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ DPIA - A paper can be adapted - "A Semantic Specification for Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA)" https://doi.org/10.3233/SSW220007
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> PaulRyan: Perhaps Delaram and Tytti will have interest in collaborating for this one.
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ ROPA - Paul's PhD work can be adapted here, DPCat specification using DCAT should be discussed separately. The guide will focus on showing which concepts from DPV are useful for which ROPA field. This will be aligned with implementation of the ISO/IEC 27560 revision (which as PII Processing Records and Privacy Receipts instead of just for consent)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ 29184 Privacy Notices - Harsh has a working draft https://harshp.com/dpv-x/guides/notice-29184/ based on consent guide
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: +1 to add it on the next release
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> JulianFlake: Is there documentation on how it relates to ISO 27560 on consent records?
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Data Breach - A paper can be adapted - "Towards a Semantic Specification for GDPR Data Breach Reporting"  https://doi.org/10.3233/FAIA230956 
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Rights Exercise - A paper can be adapted - "How to Manage My Data? With Machine--Interpretable GDPR Rights!" https://doi.org/10.3233/FAIA241254 
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: I would like to improve the current draft guide by DEC
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Risk Assessment - needs to be written from scratch, Harsh can do this quickly as he has written most of the RISK extension content
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ ODRL - https://dev.dpvcg.org/guides/dpv-odrl has a draft mapping table but is missing a github issue (Beatriz to check with ODRL CG on how to implement this correctly?)
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> BeatrizEsteves: seems doable by 2.3, I have already shared the current state with ODRL CG and have feedback to improve it.
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ The next meeting will be on OCT-29 Wednesday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST
16:17:47 <BeatrizEsteves> \ Agenda for next meeting will be continuing discussion on topics started for v2.3 and any other updates/new proposed topics.