16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, DelaramGolpayegani, TyttiRintamaki, PaulRyan, JulioHernandez, JulianFlake
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 10 JUL 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250710T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250710T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-07-10
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Weekly Meeting Poll
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ see https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Jul/0002.html 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ fill your preferences here: https://www.when2meet.com/?31247113-2tTGs 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ ACTION: everyone to fill in preferences for weekly meeting poll
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.2
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: there is a delay in producing the release drafts, see https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Jul/0005.html 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussed the following timeline for reviewing and release:
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Harsh completes producing draft release and emails reviewers and mailing list on Monday JUL-14
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ First review discussion: JUL-17
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Second review discussion: JUL-24
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Final review discussion: JUL-31
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ IF no major issues and no further fixes needed, release on AUG-01. If further fixes needed, review discussion: AUG-07
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.3 topics
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ topics of priority 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: ODRL
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130 -> Issue 130 Alignment with ODRL (by besteves4)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ we are aiming for a formally defined/specified alignment with ODRL, and for this we will have a joint CG-report that outlines the role and placement of DPV for use with ODRL alongside declaring DPV as a profile of ODRL (separate from the DPV specs)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Beatriz is leading this work 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: EHDS
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ there is work proposed by Georg and Beatriz (PACSOI project)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: AI Act
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: focus on expanding the scope and coverage of the AI Act extension with legal developments. The Code of Conduct was published today - https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/contents-code-gpai which includes a transparency model form which is a word document which contains fields related to "acceptable use policy" and "intended use" -- so we know the conversations we had in the past months were on the right track and valuable for this;
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: However, this work lacks a machine-readable version of the form, so that is something that can be our incentive and where DPV is useful
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: There is also work on Prohibited systems which can be incorporated into DPV. I am working on updating VAIR with these concepts which will then be proposed to the DPV.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Related here is MLDCAT-AP which is not aligned with the AI Act (that's kind of a low hanging fruit to see what is the extent of this to cover/support GPAI code of conduct and where our work can fit in)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: MLDCAT-AP doesn't address the AI Act (there is no mention of AI Act in the document)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: It contains "intended purpose" which comes from the AI Act
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: They created this before the AI Act, so it only references models and other concepts for the portal
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: yes, though GPAI models and LLMs under AI Act are what this specification should have been describing, otherwise its a waste of effort if the specification does not incoporate or support auditability and just assumes compliance
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: There is space here to combine this with AICat and DPV and other work to show what is possible or a better way of doing things
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Let's discuss this offline, and then report back our proposed contributions. IF interested in this work, contact Delaram.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Guides
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: There are a number of guides which have been proposed and which are yet to be written. I'll be writing them up, aiming to get them out as 1 per month. They also make for neat papers, so that's a good incentive. IF interested in joining this, contact me.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Examples and Use-Cases
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Likewise, we have examples but no use-cases. So for the v2.3 development, I want to insist and set up a structure where we always have at least one use-case for each concept (at the broad level) so that we document what the concept is and why we decided to add it. Same for examples - we have them, but let's aim to add them for each concept (at a broad level).
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: This will be useful - for use-cases - as they will also help represent and check for compliance etc. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Yes, and then they can be helpful later to further explore aspects such as Tytti's PhD will require use-cases for the impact assessments. So we can have the shorter textual descriptions in DPV which gives an idea of what use-case are and what are the concepts/concerns involved.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: AI training, GPAI uses, Agents
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: These are topics that are all the hype at the moment, and we need a way to reference them. So this should be a focus for the AI extension.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: My paper "Simple now, Complex later: The Questionable Efficacy of Diluting GDPR Article 30(5)" https://doi.org/10.31235/osf.io/t3d9w_v1 accepted for APF
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: PhD Job for enhancing DPV: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Jul/0004.html please share in network
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on JUL-17 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be reviewing DPV v2.2 draft release, deciding on weekly meeting slot, and starting work on v2.3
