16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, DelaramGolpayegani, PaulRyan, JulianFlake, JanLindquist, GeorgKrog, BeatrizEsteves
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: TyttiRintamaki
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 10 JUL 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250717T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250717T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-07-17

16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Weekly Meeting Poll
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ see https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Jul/0002.html 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ fill your preferences here: https://www.when2meet.com/?31247113-2tTGs 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Based on the poll, the selected timeslot for the weekly meeting is: `WED 14:30 CEST`. In addition to this, we will arrange adhoc meetings as needed for people who cannot participate in these meeting slots, and based on specific topics. This will allow more people to participate and to have flexibility for people's schedules and availabilities. Each meeting will be registered on the DPVCG calendar.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Change weekly meeting schedule to WED 14:30 CEST
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Adoption Wiki
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Based on Delaram's question about our adoption page, the Wiki page for DPV Adoption https://github.com/w3c/dpv/wiki/Adoption-and-Uses-of-DPVCG has been updated with use of DPV in standards and specs. Please help maintain – especially adoption in standards/specs and industry use-cases as these are good measures of impacts, also by projects/consortiums. We have a good coverage of literature citations thanks to Beatriz and Julian's work for the ISWC paper.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.2
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: there is a delay in producing the release drafts, see https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Jul/0005.html (continued)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JanLindquist: EUDI wallet implementing 27560 and access control. Level of assurance regarding identity – can the DPV provide this?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Embedded policies and policy controls and agents (e.g. Solid Pods, Wallets) Alternatives: ODRL – allows for more complex policies + there’s multiple implementations of ODRL evaluators now; DCQL – Digital Credentials Query Language (DCQL) - Basically does role-based access control only. If we compare it to Solid’s AC mechanisms, it does basically the same.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Discussion on topics regarding EUDI wallets and the assurance level taxonomy. Suggestion to look if such a taxonomy exists elsewhere, and if not whether DPV should create one. If it exists, does it only require being integrated into DPV? Also good practice to see how this aligns with canonical standards and specs (like mDriving license work in ISO and elsewhere). But otherwise this is in scope of DPV as and where it would be the personal data of the person.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on JUL-23 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST (new time slot) 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be reviewing DPV v2.2 draft release, deciding on weekly meeting slot, and starting work on v2.3.
