16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> Scribe: beatrizEsteves
16:15:47 <beatrizEsteves> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:47 <ghurlbot> OK.
16:15:55 <beatrizEsteves> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <beatrizEsteves> Chair: beatrizEsteves
16:16:51 <beatrizEsteves> Present: harshPandit, beatrizEsteves, markLizar, julioHernandez, julianFlake, delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog
16:18:43 <beatrizEsteves> Regrets: paulRyan
16:17:14 <beatrizEsteves> Date: 13 FEB 2025
16:17:28 <beatrizEsteves> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250213T133000/
16:17:37 <beatrizEsteves> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> \ purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-02-13
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> Topic: v2.1 release
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/198 -> Issue 198 DPV v2.1 release management (by ghurlbot)
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> \ v2.1 release candidate with open review until FEB-16; see https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Feb/0002.html and https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/235 for hotfixes
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> \ updates on reviewing tasks: Julio is still reviewing loc and tech extensions; julian checked GDPR extension and didn’t find any major issues; Beatriz will check justifications extension tomorrow
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> Topic: v2.2 roadmap
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> beatrizEsteves: will check offline with Georg on updates on the EHDS concepts
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> tyttiRintamaki: discussing with Georg - DPIA concepts - will work offline to publish an ontology for this and then will suggest it to be integrated into DPV
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/114 -> Issue 114 In 27560-records, how to identify the latest consent state? (by coolharsh55)
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> georgKrog: latest consent / nested consent – will show Signatu’s solution next meeting and we can have a discussion whether that’s more appropriate than the DCAT solution proposed in #114, towards updating the guide with our proposed approach
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> markLizar: how are we going to represent consent to secondary purposes?
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> georgKrog: discussing with Mark - clarification on the distinction of giving consent/permission and how to capture this with DPV in privacy notices
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> georgKrog: biometric concepts will be shared in time to the mailing list
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> georgKrog: represent rights from DGA and other EU laws – Beatriz is interested in this, in particular will look at the Data Act in the spring
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> Topic: AI Training
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/82 -> Issue 82 Provide vocabulary to specify purposes and permissions related to AI training (by scottkellum)
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> delaramGolpayegani: where are we going to get the definitions for the terms? Are there any ISO standards that we can use?
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> delaramGolpayegani: Maybe ISO/IEC TR 29119-11:2020 (Software and systems engineering — Software testing — Part 11: Guidelines on the testing of AI-based system) maybe has something
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> markLizar: Will share more solutions via mailing list - see https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Feb/0008.html
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> Topic: Subjective Locations
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/209 -> Issue 209 [Concept]: `AtX` subjective Location concepts  (by coolharsh55)
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> harshPandit: top concepts (private/public) have to be combined with specific ones (at home, on device). We need to agree on the top concepts by checking whether they fulfil use cases, e.g. FashionID case, cookies, wallets communicating what’s private/public, CCTV monitoring, etc. 
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> markLizar: CCTV would be semipublic
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> harshPandit: semipublic is currently not on the list of concepts because there’s not good definition for it
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> Topic: Inverted Locations
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/208 -> Issue 208 [Concept]: Add Non-X (X = specific location) to represent locations that are not X (by coolharsh55)
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> harshPandit: currently we will support NonEU since we have support for EU jurisdiction. We can also support NonXX where XX are EU countries if required, we need to check whether there are any national laws that require this
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> Topic: AOB
16:15:44 <beatrizEsteves> markLizar: https://kantara.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/WA/pages/301564731/ANCR+Transparency+Performance+Report – work on controller identification – document is open for feedback 
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> \ The next meeting will be on FEB-20 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET 
16:17:47 <beatrizEsteves> \ Agenda will be reviewing and finalising release of v2.1, and continuing discussion on topics started under v2.2
