16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, BeatrizEsteves, JulianFlake, DelaramGolpayegani, PaulRyan, StratisKoulierakis, ArthitSuriyawongkul
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: GeorgKrog
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 29 OCT 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251029T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251029T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-29
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-22
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Nominating DPVCG chair
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> See https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389 -> Issue 389 DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ see email from Art on mailing list https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0006.html
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Art mentioned interest in being a maintainer in the previous meeting. The appointment and considerations for maintainer are not as strict as a chair, and this is something that we can work out between everybody who is interested in helping maintain the DPV resources. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Art and myself will meet and discuss this after the meeting on the same call (people are welcome to attend)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: For the chair's role, the only nomination we have so far is from Beatriz. Next meeting we will aim to make a decision. Since Beatriz would not be present, she should circulate an email regarding her take on the tasks (which she wants to be responsible for and which she wants to support) so that we are aware of what she can accept. We will then make the decision next week on the position of the chair, and will circulate an email to confirm this in the meeting after that.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: DPVCG Charter
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399 -> Issue 399 Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Attending the W3C CG council meetings which is like an official support group run by the W3C, where they want to see more CGs move to the WG phase i.e. have standards develop from CG work; We are at a good mature stage now and I'd like us to have a WG next year. Once of the things for that is we should have a written charter which tells others what the group is about, what is in scope, and what is outside. This charter is then taken into consideration when creating the WG.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> PaulRyan: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add charter for CG
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: DPV v2.2.1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Fixes to DPV 2.2
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ broken links in search page, missing info on deprecated concepts, potentially missing OWL files; tentative date OCT-31
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Missing `dpv:Entity`
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/401 -> Issue 401 [FIX]:  dpv:EntityControl domain (by noelmcloughlin)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Don't remember about this issue as either we have missed adding that concept or that the property range is incorrect. Suggest adding in the concept. This was supposed to be about providing another entity with controls - which could be consent for data subject or general privacy settings, or for processor/another entity to do something with it.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: The property is declared as a sub-property of `hasTechnicalOrganisationalMeasure`?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Yes, the provision of controls is an organisational measure
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add `dpv:EntityControl`
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: deprecated warning
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/396 -> Issue 396 Add a red box warning for older DPV versions (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: P7012 notice
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/404 -> Issue 404 Add notice for P7012 (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Documentation revision
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPV main spec
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Harsh initial simplification proposal at https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: A mapping of uses cases to extensions, e.g., for DPIAs check this and this spec, would also be very helpful, as mentioned by Delaram a couple of calls before
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: The idea was to help the user see which extensions are relevant for a given use-case; maybe something like a tutorial would also be nice
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: This is a good idea, I had found this framework for four kinds of documentation: technical specification which is what the DPV pages are, guides as in our guides that inform how to use the DPV for a specific topic, tutorials which are a literal step by step description of how to find and how to use the concepts.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: What is the fourth form?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: (post-meeting note) Explanations -- this would be like the blog posts that explain why some specific design or concept works or doesn't work 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: already shared the new structure of the main spec with a few people and they find it helpful
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: change the DPV main spec to the simple form
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Search
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Browser extension / Search index is very useful to found concepts and it's not known by a lot of people using DPV
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Its the same search page that we have in our repo and online. But this means that people are not finding it, so we should do something about it.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add search page to the DPV main spec
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Overview/Github 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Art has provided a fantastic overview for the DPV resources, which is meant to replace the default view we get on github i.e. https://w3c.github.io/dpv/ which is produced from the `README.md` in repo
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ PR https://github.com/w3c/dpv/pull/400 with demo at https://bact.github.io/dpv/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: amazing, great work, thanks for doing this, +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: +1 yes looks great should be integrated
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: would save this as a bookmark/landing page, +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakis: +1, also saved as a bookmark
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: if there's anything about this landing page, please comment at https://github.com/w3c/dpv/pull/400
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ accepted
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Merge PR#400 index.html overview
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: EHDS concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: close to completion for concepts from PACSOI ; will share before I go on leave; Georg also shared a spreadsheet which I haven't looked at yet
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: CRDM/EIT AI concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390 -> Issue 390 Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: Harsh to review the EIT capabilities concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Delaram to review the CRDM concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Harsh and Delaram will review and discuss and then report back
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on NOV-05 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Maintainer Role
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ present: HarshPandit, ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, JulianFlake
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ using tasks of the chair which also has maintainer tasks https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0002.html
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed for Art to start with issue management and maintaininece of repo and also quality checks for concepts e.g. existing PR on missing concept
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add maintainers to the repo for recognition