16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki, StratisKoulierakis, DelaramGolpayegani, StratisKoulierakis, ArthitSuriyawongkul, IainHenderson, JulianFlake
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: GeorgKrog, BeatrizEsteves
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 05 NOV 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251105T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251105T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-05
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-10-29
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Nominating DPVCG chair
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> See https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Sep/0005.html
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/389 -> Issue 389 DPVCG chair nomination (discussion) (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: We have 1 candidate (Beatriz Esteves, self-nomination) who has expressed their preference for a co-chair role with myself as the other chair. Links to relevant statements: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0000.html (expression of interest) https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Oct/0007.html (tasks)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: We have had support (+7) so far on the mailing list (https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2025Nov/) from Stratis Koulierakis, Bud P. Bruegger, Piero Bonatti, Axel Polleres, Ajay Jadhav, and Renato Iannella.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: I have been asked to communicate support on direct emails (+1) from Georg. From those in the meeting, what are people's decisions?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> PaulRyan: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> TyttiRintamaki: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: We have +7 from the meeting for a total of +15 in support, none against. Agreed decision: Harsh and Beatriz as co-chairs
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Confirm Harsh and Beatriz as co-chairs in next meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: We will circulate this discussion on the mailing list for input from other non-attending members so they have an opportunity to object. IF no objections are accepted, then next week we will formalise the decision.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Maintainer
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: New Maintainer -- Art, welcome
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: DPVCG Charter
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399 -> Issue 399 Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Working document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: (discussing structure of the document, explanation of each section, why the Charter is needed and what is its role) We have to write and discuss three sections: Goals, Scope, and Out of Scope
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Example Solid CG Charter https://www.w3.org/community/solid/charter/ 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: What about ethical web principles mentioned in the Solid charter? Do we do something similar in ours? https://www.w3.org/TR/ethical-web-principles/ 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: No, because these are written for a web technology in mind, which Solid is, whereas DPV isn't. What would be more relevant is the Privacy Principles https://www.w3.org/TR/privacy-principles/ which talk about user control and consent/opt-in-out etc. which we can state as being relevant. In the future we can work on mapping how privacy principles can be implemented using DPV
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: I would argue the ethical web principles are also about the web as in semantic web
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Agree, my concern is that if we specify ethical web principle we might be saying DPV is only for the "web" so otherwise we have broader principles. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: So we have privacy preferences in scope for our charter, and then ethical principles in Goals as an example of what DPV can be helpful for as an application
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: Agreed that the privacy principles is much more focused
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: For drafting the charter, who volunteers to support this?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Set up DPVCG Charter draft -- Harsh and Art
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: DPV 2.2.1 released
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: see https://github.com/w3c/dpv/releases/tag/dpv-2.2.1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: deprecated warning
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/396 -> Issue 396 Add a red box warning for older DPV versions (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Add a red box warning for older DPV versions (done -- see w3id.org/dpv/1.0/dpv)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: documentation
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Revise default github repo page (done -- see https://w3c.github.io/dpv/)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: New 404 page (same as above, see w3id.org/dpv/error)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: w3id error
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/398 -> Issue 398 [FIX]: https://w3id.org/dpv/examples/ redirection is broken (by bact)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: broken w3id config has now been fixed (confirmed by Art)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Documentation revision
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Harsh initial simplification proposal at https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Implement main spec simple layout for 2.3-dev -- Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on NOV-12 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET