16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, FabianLinde, RuhiAnandFinn, BeyzaYaman, ArthitSuriyawongkul, BeatrizEsteves, ChristianDraeger, DelaramGolpayegani, GabrielaKurteva, PaulRyan, SalDAgostino, ElenaMolino, JulianFlake, JulioHernandez, AjayJadhav
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: GeorgKrog, MarlinKisia, EfstratiosKoulierakis
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 18 FEB 2026
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260218T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260218T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-18
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-11
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Admin
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Submit to LOV
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353 -> Issue 353 v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/vocabs/dpv
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: what should be the contents? I have a CSV with IRI, link to turtle file, name, list of contributors
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: their email says it needs an IRI for contributors
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: let's send an email and confirm this with them
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Beatriz to check with LOV maintainers if we need IRIs for each contributor/author
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: DPV v2.3 release schedule
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/9
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Funding acknowledgements
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: All contributors please check names, affiliations, and funding acknowledgements and report any changes needed ASAP today.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: PR#443 for beatriz to review https://github.com/w3c/dpv/pull/443 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: is okay, will approve on github
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: For Julian, copied acknowledgements to EHDS 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: This is okay
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: w3id updates
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/425 -> Issue 425 w3id updates needed for v2.3 (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: the w3id update was made and the PR was accepted; however as the latest version was set to 2.3 which currently doesn't exist on main, it resulted in 404s. A remedy PR was made and has been accepted and the issues should have been fixed -- please report any 404s found
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: EU EHDS and SECTOR-HEALTH
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/299 -> Issue 299 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for EHDS (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ okay from Beatriz, Christian, Julian
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ note: purpose compatibility moved to 2.4
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ okay from Julian, Christian
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Usability
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/432 -> Issue 432 [FIX]: Duplicated concept in Figure 1 (by renyuneyun)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Fixed the incorrect diagram for `Context` incorrectly labelled as `ProcessingContext`, added all legal extensions and updated the diagram
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Locations
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341 -> Issue 341 Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342 -> Issue 342 Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: Wonder if we should also have more clarity on what is a virtual location or logical location as opposed to something that has geophysical presence
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> SalDAgostino: Location is important, we want to make note of controller and processing location etc. so it is important to make note of what location is available; point is that locations have "addresses" that can be correlated e.g. IP or websites
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: (see comment on issue#341) Will it be an issue if we don't decide in 2.3 to not separate the virtual and real locations? Or can we do this in a future release that locations are of different types e.g. location is a super class of virtual and physical locations?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: yes that would be okay if we say things are locations without saying what kind of location they are and later add parent types
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add a note to TECH locations about virtual locations in the future
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: version
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: `2.3-dev` folder now renamed to `2.3` and the release date is set to FEB-25 (may break existing links to dev version, but the redirect on the server should handle this correctly)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: changelog
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: We have approx. 550 added concepts - most of them in EHDS and GDNG; and we have about 220 concepts removed due to changes in name etc. The only specific breaking change is in the DPV `ServiceProvision` purpose as we added `ServiceMaintainence` as the top broad concept with specific concepts for provision, quality assessment, etc. This is not a problem as the fix is to use the more specific concept, and as the continued use of this concept will not be incorrect per se, but will not accurately reflect the possibilities in terms of covered purposes. Solution is to explicitly add the new purposes.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: release timeline
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: propose we release the draft today and then we finalise the release and publish it next week if there are no major issues
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Publish draft release with 1 week period for comment
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.4
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> proposed work program https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/10 -- review and indicate interest to be involved in the work
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: India's DPDP
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/438 -> Issue 438 [NEW] DPDP extension to represent Indiaâ€™s Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 as `legal/in/dpdp` (by ajile-in)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> AjayJadhav: Have made a proposal that this work should be modelled as a new extension (IN-DPDP) for the next release
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: The work is in scope of the group, and we already have the IN extension. We also have support from Georg (Signatu) for the work. So I think this would be acceptable unless there are any issues or objections?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ no objections
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ people working on this: AjayJadhav, GeorgKrog, ArthitSuriyawongkul
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> SalDAgostino: have some work that relates to DPV and IEEE 7012 and ISO 27560 ; the work on the Kantara TPI has relevance in terms of AI profiles, signals, and also being profile/jurisdiction independent. For example we have  mappings to the PCI/DSS standard which would support financial and reatil use cases. The TPI specification is here https://kantarainitiative.org/download/transparency-performance-indicators-recommendation/# The work I am referring to takes this and expands on it, and it something I am doing at IDmachines, I will follow up with some examples, also there is a paper being published by IEEE based on a presentation their international symposium on privacy expectations
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on FEB-25 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET