16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit, BeatrizEsteves
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: BeatrizEsteves, HarshPandit, GeorgKrog, PaulRyan, DelaramGolpayegani, JulianFlake, StratisKoulierakis, JulioHernandez, ArthitSuriyawongkul
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: TyttiRintamaki, GabrielaKurteva
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 26 NOV 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251126T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251126T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-26
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-19
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: DPVCG Charter
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399 -> Issue 399 Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Working document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: will check the document in the next weeks
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussion concluded with following: using the next 1 week to invite comments, and then we will consolidate and discuss in the meeting on DEC-10. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Updates
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: ISO taxonomy
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26 -> Issue 26 DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakis: interested to work on this topic +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: what is the scope/objective here?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: to create a vocabulary representing core ISO terms so that we can state how DPV covers these terms
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: specific standards and terms (list mentioned)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakis: instead of expressing whole ISO standard, it would also be useful to extract best practices identified in the standard and enrich existing DPV concepts e.g. TOMs from ISO can be put in DPV
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: e.g. encryption in some ISO standard goes in DPV TOMs
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakis: Exactly. E.g. clear desk policy (implied org measure)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: do we need concepts to refer to the standards, i.e., connect terms with standards where they are mentioned?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: VAIR has a list of standards that is not in DPV yet, also a list of standards from JTC1 /SC42 from the FORSEE project 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: sounds good to reuse these
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: I had these notes from early in the discussion https://harshp.com/dev/dpv/standards-iso and example of other metadata being used by Interoperable Europe https://interoperable-europe.ec.europa.eu/collection/ict-standards-procurement/solution/isoiec-19086-12016-information-technology-cloud-computing-service-level-agreement-sla-framework-part/distribution/isoiec-19086-12016-information-technology-cloud-computing-service-level-agreement-sla/rdf-export 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: are we just looking at ISO standards or the European  adaptations e.g. CENELEC
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: start with ISO ones first makes sense, as the others are still under development
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Harsh to organise meetings poll for dedicated work sessions
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: EHDS
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Beatriz and Harsh to discuss on 9th, then loop in Georg, and then loop in Julian
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: AI Act
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229 -> Issue 229 Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Delaram and others working on this to meet on either 15th / 16th / 17th
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: NIS2
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222 -> Issue 222 Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Harsh and Georg to work on this, starting with actors, and reporting obligations
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: EDPB consultaion where this is relevant e.g. for incident reporting www.edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/documents/public-consultations/2025/help-make-gdpr-compliance-easy-organisations_en
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: no updates; Next meeting on that is next Monday
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: CRDM/EIT AI Concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390 -> Issue 390 Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: almost done working out the concepts with Delaram, we just need to consolidate and then make a concrete proposal -- it should come in the next weeks
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we have a big batch of concepts coming in December, it might be that we have a minor release for 2.3 with proposed changes and then finalise them in 2.4 (so we're okay to continue the research schedule)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: new concepts will be added with a note that they might change by 2.4
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on NOV-26 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Harsh, Beatriz, and Delaram are away; we will keep the meeting as open discussion (no agenda except AOB)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ timeline for last meeting wed before Christmas DEC-17, restart first Wed new year JAN-07 -- works for everyone
