16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, IainHenderson, DelaramGolpayegani, JulianFlake, ArthitSuriyawongkul, StratisKoulierakius, TyttiRintamaki, GabrielaKurteva, JulioHernandez
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog, PaulRyan
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 19 NOV 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251119T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20251119T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-19
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-11-12
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Admin
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPVCG Charter
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399 -> Issue 399 Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Working document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: do we continue with the simple approach as discussed in the last meeting?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed on structure of DPVCG charter
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Circulate draft of DPVCG charter - Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: W3C reports
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/363 -> Issue 363 Submit DPV v2.1 to w3c cg outputs for normative purls (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/364 -> Issue 364 Submit v2.2 to w3c cg repo for normative purls (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: WIP (to modify prior versions with red outdated box - checking the procedure)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Submit v2.2.1 and v1, v2, v2.1 with changes to w3c - Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Fix #406 primer links when submitting to w3c - Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Improve Main Spec
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Harsh initial simplification proposal at https://harshp.com/dpv-x/dpv-simplification/dpv.html
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: some technical issues with links redirection, to be solved with custom js
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Implement the revised main spec
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Examples, Use-Cases
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/12 -> Issue 12 Use-Cases and Examples showing how vocab can be used (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Our previous use-cases page exists at https://w3c.github.io/dpv/use-cases/ Do we do these per (ontological e.g. purpose, and not taxonomical e.g. marketing) concept or do we do these in general for large groups of contexts? (my preference is for coverage as a priority, so high-level that covers all existing concepts and then we can have more use-cases later)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: +1 broad approach is good otherwise we have lots of concepts and overlaps
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed to continue with examples as currently done, for use-cases to focus on the high-level coverage
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add examples and use-cases guidance
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Mapping laws
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/186 -> Issue 186 Create Mapping between GDPR and DPV (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> - HarshPandit: should https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.3-dev/legal/eu/gdpr/#mapping be expanded to article by article analysis?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: +1 article by article would be helpful, would be nice to know how much of the GDPR articles are covered by DPV
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakius: +1 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: is this GDPR -> DPV or DPV -> GDPR (Harsh its GDPR -> DPV). 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: We have source references to GDPR
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: Source is different, concepts is also mapped to different articles (but +1 to go with article by article) For Art.4 this is definitions so this is an exact match as it exists in DPV but for other concepts this is not clear
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: so this would be e.g. Art.35 has DPIA concepts and there is also guidance with links
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: having mappings from article to concepts or even to guide / topic documents is good (e.g. for DPIA, ROPA)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: It would be good to state DPV covers all definitions in articles; we should look at whether there are SHACL shapes and SPARQL queries to represent the mappings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: I am thinking we put this in HTML for people to see for a given article where to look for concepts, if there is somrthing in main DPV, something in EU-GDPR, guidelines or examples. We can add notes for what is not covered as well.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: How detailed or granular should this be?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: I'm thinking we go for high-level coverage so people can see whether a topic has relevant concepts or not, and there's an infinite number of additional concepts/things that couid be added, but there is sufficient stuff to be useful now
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: AI Act also has guidelines for prohibited systems which we might want to reference when talking about concepts for AI Act
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: also harmonised standards, would 42005 be in scope or not, for AI Act it would be good to reference links to harmonised standards
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Do we put certifications as separate documents and put the mapping over there? (ref. to Stratis' thesis)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Create github issues for mappings associated with AI Act, EHDS, NIS2
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Updates
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: ISO taxonomy
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26 -> Issue 26 DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: propose setting up extension structure and scope as /standards/iso ; and then within it we have iso/core for the main concepts or we have iso/29100 for the main concepts e.g. PII Principal and in /mappings/iso we have the mappings from iso vocabularies to DPV concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: 29100 already has mapping to GDPR, maybe we go ISO to GDPR to DPV? (+1) (I was wrong on that, there is an 29100 -> 27000 mapping only in ISO29100)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: for jurisdictions which don't use GDPR this would be complex, so we can directly go DPV to ISO
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: for the structure in the repo, for the mappings to regulations, it will be in the /dpv/guides?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: it will be in the EU-GDPR html 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: mappings between DPV and ontologies (they are in /mappings) and the other is the HTML spec
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: maybe we change what we call 'mappings' in HTML to "coverage of GDPR terms in DPV" or something similar
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: guides are for people using the DPV e.g. consent records is in guides for ISO 27560, and there is also something in the GDPR about it
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: also what I was referring to in relation to the GDPR mapping. Having mappings from articles to concepts and guides is a good thing.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: If I have a guide about NIS2 where do I put it?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: if its only about NIS2, then it goes in NIS2 legal namespaces. If its also helpful for others but takes requirements from NIS2 then it goes to guides.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: AI Act
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229 -> Issue 229 Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: working on mapping AI Act articles to DPv, and the outcome will be a list of proposed concepts; there is already work on high-risk and prohibited systems
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: Met Christian, no updates to report back now. We have ongoing work on use-case where Christian is applying this to the real use and we are identifying minimal concepts from the synthetic + real use-case ; we are also working on English labels
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: Working with german labels so there might be a need for English labels
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: okay for me if the German system allows only german labels; if no one outside Germany context is using this then there isn't a need for English labels; in any case, there will be concepts extended from core DPV concepts so there is a contextual understanding of what the concept in German law is
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: Some links between GDNG and GDPR e.g. personal data which would be good to highlight
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: CRDM/EIT AI Concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390 -> Issue 390 Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: The CRDM concept links were broken, the publications office has provided the correct link and the IRIs currently giving 404s will be resolved soon; see github issue
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Delaram has been working on mapping, we will have a proposal next week. 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: EU Commission has published omnibus simplification proposals formally for GDPR and AI Act today; don't know changes from leaked version yet
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: When will be the last meeting of 2025? When will be the first meeting of 2026?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Last meeting this year on DEC-17 (last WED before christmas break) and first meeting in new year on JAN-07. Will also add this to the agenda for next meeting.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on NOV-26 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET