16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, PaulRyan, MarkLizar, GeorgKrog, BeatrizEsteves, JulioHernandez
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: DelaramGolpayegani
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 15 MAY 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250515T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250515T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-05-15
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Representing Use-Cases
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284 -> Issue 284 [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ continued discussion
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussed `UseCase` as a concept to be added to DPV
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ +1 from Paul and Julio
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Next week to decide on categories of use-cases
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Operating Factors / Environment
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/285 -> Issue 285 [NEW]: Modelling Operating Factors for Technology (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussed this, decision next week
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Secondary Use
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/283 -> Issue 283 [NEW]: Secondary Uses for Data Reuse (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussed compatibility as a concept in GDPR, AI Act, and EHDS
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: Should there be compatibility for purposes, we were thinking of a property to state compatibility with purpose
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Good idea, we should have the property `isCompatibleWith` and `isIncompatibleWith`, but these should work at the use-case or process level as the test of compatibility can involve many things
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: How would this compatibility be determined?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: compatibility is specific to the use-case or framework e.g. in GDPR we have purpose compatibility which is purposes, but also invovles data categories, recipients, legal basis, etc.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: How would this work with policy checking?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: you have a test for checking compatibility, and then when comparing the two policies you check whether it is compatible or not, and these concepts are the outputs
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: note for policies we need fixable and non-fixable compatibility so we know what can be resolved
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: Where in GDPR would this be useful?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: e.g. to model scenarios during DPIA. GDPR already has a structure for describing use-cases which is Art.30 ROPA records which gives indication of what information is present in such an use-case
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: GDPR revision proposed
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: proposal from EU Commission on diluting ROPA requirements for GDPR, some specific wording of concern on special categories.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: Not sure about the usefulness of these as these concepts are already required for fulfilling other obligations which are still present
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> PaulRyan: Agree, these are needed for rights and transparency
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: TCF ruling
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: Court ruling on IAB and TCF declaring it illegal https://www.linkedin.com/posts/johnnyryan1_eu-ruling-tracking-based-advertising-by-activity-7328492374689550336-yYWD
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: congrats to Johnny and ICCL
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: NXDG workshop
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: CFP for NXDG workshop -- https://nxdg-workshop.github.io/2025/ NXDG deadline is JUN-14
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: New complaint
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> MarkLizar: complaint filed against Google Chrome https://www.globalprivacyrights.org/quebec-law-25-collective-google-chrome-complaint-45
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on MAY-22 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be EHDS concepts led by Georg, and continued discussions from today on use-case categories, operating factors, and secondary use concepts
