16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> Scribe: JulianFlake
16:15:47 <JulianFlake> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <JulianFlake> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <JulianFlake> Chair: JulianFlake
16:16:51 <JulianFlake> Present: JulianFlake, ArthitSuriyawongkul, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamäki, ChristianDraeger
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> Regrets: HarshPandit, BeatrizEsteves, DelaramGolpayegani, StratisKoulierakis
16:17:14 <JulianFlake> Date: 17 SEP 2025
16:17:28 <JulianFlake> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250917T133000/
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250917T133000/ 
16:17:37 <JulianFlake> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-09-17
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> Topic: v2.2
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/301 -> Issue 301 dpv 2.2 draft review (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ milestone https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7 -- new issues
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> \ release candidate published https://github.com/w3c/dpv/releases/tag/dpv-2.2-rc
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> \ changelog https://w3id.org/dpv/2.2/changelog
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> \ comment period until SEP-15
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> JulianFlake: 4 persons agree to release v2.2 (no objections or issues noted)
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ACTION: Release v2.2
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/365 -> Issue 365 README: move past version links to Wiki page, keep only the latest version links (by coolharsh55)
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ACTION: update readme for release
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/366 -> Issue 366 Create changelog for v2.2 (by coolharsh55)
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ACTION: update changelogs for release
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/339 -> Issue 339 w3id updates for v2.2 (by coolharsh55)
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ACTION: update w3id for v2.2 release
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> Topic: Generic Places
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/384 -> Issue 384 Modelling Generic Locations/Places (e.g. Airport, School) (by coolharsh55)
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> JulianFlake: any news on this topic?
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ArthitSuriyawongkul: Summarizes subjective locations and categories of non-subjective locations and distinguishes them from physical locations.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> JulianFlake: AtHome, AtWork could/should become part of PD extension, some other concepts (school, train, airport) could/should become part of a specific sector extension
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ArthitSuriyawongkul: School, airport, hospital are "abstract" (or logical). School and hospital could be subjective ("my school" and "my hospital", for a regular patient), but airport is not so subjective. Implications of expressing logical locations should be taken into considerations since they can reveal personal data. For example, the fact that a person visit a particular clinic chain/brand (not necessarily a physical location) may reveal the person's religion or association with a trade union in a country that the primary healthcare service or health insurance tend to offered by religious-organization or trade-union.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> JulianFlake: First thing is to decide, whether we want to include such concepts now or if we can find a betterfoundation for / existing source of concepts to base on or to connect with.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ChristianDraeger: intuitively I'd think, there exists some vocabulary, somewhere.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> Topic: AOB - LEGAL DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ChristianDraeger introduces himself and GNDG.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> JulianFlake: Challenging: German regulation without translation.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ChristianDraeger: We should not expect an English translation in a timely manner. Therefore, the German GDNG should serve as basis. Where do we start? Do we have a Excel file or create a new one?
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ArthitSuriyawongkul: Technically, source of truth is typically a Google Sheet. XLSX is extracted, CSV is generated from XLSX, etc. (by python scripts in the repo).
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> JulianFlake: First step is to pupulate one table
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ChristianDraeger: Still not sure, who will work on this.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ArthitSuriyawongkul: A good idea is to create a GitHub issue first, so others can participate voluntarily.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> TyttiRintamäki: I work on Impact Assessments in context of DPIA and had to work on different legal texts and the EU's "eTranslation service" (NN trained on legal texts) is of great help. Link: https://commission.europa.eu/resources/etranslation_en
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ChristianDraeger: A template of a Google Sheet would be helpful.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> JulianFlake: We could setup a meeting for the discussion on this German regulation. I'll try to setup a sheet until then (or ask Harsh).
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ChristianDraeger: time estimation for the whole extraction process?
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> TyttiRintamäki: A month could be sufficient.
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> ChristianDraeger: Can we have a preview on EHDS concepts?
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> JulianFlake: I'll ask Beatriz. 
16:15:44 <JulianFlake> Topic: Agenda items not discussed
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287 -> Issue 287 [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298 -> Issue 298 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386 -> Issue 386 Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ The next meeting will be on SEP-24 Thursday 13:30WEST/14:30CEST
16:17:47 <JulianFlake> \ Agenda will be continuation of today's discussion regarding generic places, service maintainence, purpose compatibility, and proportionality/necessity. 
