16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, PaulRyan, JulianFlake, DelaramGolpayegani, MarkLizar, GeorgKrog, BeatrizEsteves, IainHenderson
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 08 MAY 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250508T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250508T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-05-08
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Representing Use-Cases
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/284 -> Issue 284 [NEW]: Modelling Intended Uses/Purposes as Use-Cases (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ continued discussion
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: Where in GDPR would this be useful?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: e.g. to model scenarios during DPIA. GDPR already has a structure for describing use-cases which is Art.30 ROPA records which gives indication of what information is present in such an use-case
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: This would be useful for AI Act to express intended purpose, forseeable misuse. (`UseCase` would be the top concept for these). 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: We should also think about specifications for compliance with intended purpose, and for procurement clauses.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ +1 from Georg, Delaram, Iain, Beatriz, Julian
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Next week we confirm the concept
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Further specific concepts from use-cases to be created after discussion
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Covered updates regarding operating factors and secondary purposes on the agenda
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on MAY-08 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be continuing on topics started under v2.2, and any other updates that come up.
