16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <delaramGolpayegani> Scribe: delaramGolpayegani
16:15:47 <delaramGolpayegani> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:47 <ghurlbot> OK.
16:15:55 <delaramGolpayegani> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <delaramGolpayegani> Chair: delaramGolpayegani
16:16:51 <delaramGolpayegani> Present: delaramGolpayegani, paulRyan, markLizar, julioHernandez
16:18:43 <delaramGolpayegani> Regrets: harshPandit, beatrizEsteves, georgKrog
16:17:14 <delaramGolpayegani> Date: 03 APR 2025
16:17:28 <delaramGolpayegani> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250403T133000/
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/202500403T133000/
16:17:37 <delaramGolpayegani> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-04-03
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> Topic: GDPR CoC/Certifications
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/278 -> Issue 278 [NEW]: Misc concepts based on GDPR CoC and Certifications (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> markLizar: working on Code of conduct for transparency for data protection, would suggest haing sperate extension for each of CoC, working on transparency requirements within a code of conduct for the GDPR, Article 40  (transprency by design & consent-by-default). Also, mentioned CNIL’s code of conduct approval process (https://www.cnil.fr/en/how-get-code-conduct-approve)
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> paulRyan: We already have organisation/technical measures and purpose so I do not suggest adding new extensions.  Also mentioned European Youth Online Data Protection Code of Conduct (https://www.ibec.ie/technologyireland/influence/european-youth-online-data-protection-code-of-conduct).
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> markLizar: we need to map the concepts from code of coduct to DPV concepts. Are corporate rules considered as code of conduct?
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> paulRyan: These all are compliance frameworks, so we need to determine what concepts are needed for conformity with each code of conduct that we consider?
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> delaramGolpayegani: That might trigger mapping concepts from code of conduct to DPV concepts and further adding guidelines on how tto implement conformity with the code of conduct using DPV.
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> paulRyan: The challenge is matching the concepts.  This might be something for Startis to explore and  provide more granular concepts.
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> Topic: DPV v2.1.1 hotfixes
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/279 -> Issue 279 [FIX]: DPV v2.1.1 Hotfixes (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> delaramGolpayegani: announced the comment from Harsh (The date on the documents won’t change, it just means we put an errata in the document and the github releases page version number changes (w3c published documents are updated in place) ; we don't fix breaking changes e.g. typos in IRIs -- these go into 2.2) .
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> \ The participants are okay with this.
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> Topic: AI Act Risk Level
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/231 -> Issue 231 Represent Risk Level classifications for AI/Systems in AI Act (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> delaramGolpayegani: Associating RiskLevel with dpv:process or AISystem? Also should we add the risk levels associated with GenAI models under the AI Act, i.e. with systemic risk, without systemic risk?
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> Topic: Datasheets and ModelCards
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/94 -> Issue 94 Represent Datasheets and Model Cards with DPV (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> delaramGolpayegani: AI Cards (as suggested by Harsh) should be also included given that we already have the concepts and queries from my thesis. But we might need to look into AI Factsheets as well to cover all the AI lifecycle phases, as AI Cards is focused on the use of the system.
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> markLizar: DPV for tranpspareny:  PII principle for  transparency,  ISO 27091,  OECD’s transparency and explianbility for genAI. 
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> \ The next meeting will be on APR-10 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET 
16:17:47 <delaramGolpayegani> \ Agenda will be continuing discussion on v2.1.1 hotfixes, topics started under v2.2, and any other updates that come up.