16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, GabrielaKurteva, RuhiAnandFinn, JulianFlake, IainHenderson, PaulRyan, TyttiRintamaki, ElenaMolino, MarlinKisia, BeatrizEsteves, ArthitSuriyawongkul, JanLindquist, DelaramGolpayegani
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: GeorgKrog
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 21 JAN 2026
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260121T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260121T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-21
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-14
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Admin
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPVCG Charter
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399 -> Issue 399 Establish DPVCG Charter (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Vote on approving draft Charter at https://w3id.org/dpv/charter ; discuss on https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/399
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: outcome of voting process: 10 votes from Github issue and confirmed as DPVCG members. No votes on mailing list.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "bact": ArthitSuriyawongkul
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "besteves4": BeatrizEsteves
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "c201845": Gabriela Kurteva
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "coolharsh55": Harshvardhan Pandit
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "DelaramGlp": Delaram Golpayegani
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "elenamolino": Elena Molina
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "iainh1": Iain Henderson
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "nuthub": Julian Flake
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "StrKoulierakis": Stratis Koulierakis
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ "TyttiKatariina": Tytti Rintamaki
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: about average participation in the meeting so okay to accept
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Based on these, with no objections registered, we approve the charter.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ ** DPVCG Charter approved! **
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Publish formal Charter
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Circulate formal Charter on mailing list
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we are meeting Ian from W3C later today to discuss DPVCG so good to mention we have a Charter
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: there is going to be a w3c breakout day in march and anyone doing anything in w3c can have a session; the event is online; so if Ian mentions this we can discuss whether to have a DPV session (otherwise we can ask) https://github.com/w3c/breakouts-day-2026/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Submit to LOV
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353 -> Issue 353 v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: we have the reply from LOV maintainers which is positive; so we need to create a spreadsheet with all the extensions and metadata for them to use to update the vocabularies; and then we do the same process i.e. send the spreadsheet of updated extensions for them to update in LOV
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: maybe we can automate the spreadsheet generation process as well
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: should be trivial as we already have this in RDF as well as namespaces in a spreadsheet so we can test with the DPV 2.2 already
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: +1
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Create new issue for LOV management (close #353)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPV v2.3 release schedule
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Wrapping up the scope today, and will circulate a draft so we have a release end of Jan/early Feb. The next release would then be in June/July.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agree to go ahead with DPV v2.3
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: finalise and circulate DPV v2.3 beta for feedback
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Updates
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: ISO taxonomy
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26 -> Issue 26 DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed last week the structure and scope (only core ISO concepts; next focus on GDPR CoC and certifications)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: EHDS
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: we had a meeting yesterday focusing on entities and processes; working on feedbacks and updates to harmonise the EHDS concepts with the HEALTH sector extension
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we can mention proposed concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: I will update the template for EHDS to state proposed concepts being worked on
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Beatriz to update EHDS proposed concepts for DPV v2.3
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: AI Act
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229 -> Issue 229 Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: For AI Act, we have new concepts that we confident about and there are some concepts which we think need definitions
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> RuhiAnandFinn: can review the AI Act concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: So we add what has been confirmed and reviewed and the rest we mention as WIP in the HTML - same as EHDS
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Delaram to update and review AI Act proposed concepts for DPV v2.3
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: NIS2
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222 -> Issue 222 Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ no updates
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: working with Christian ; and also trying to generate the HTML
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: New Members
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ElenaMolino: working with Beatriz at U.Ghent on automated agreement of policies/agreements which use the DPV and have consumer protection requirements; 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> MarlinKisia: PhD in U.Ghent with Beatriz in the HARNESS project and working on interoperability of consumer data vaults which requires decentralised infra like Solid pods; https://harness-network.eu/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GabrielaKurteva: PhD in TCD with Harsh also in the HARNESS on legal analysis of different regulations to extract actors, rights, and obligations and to see overlaps and contradictions (using DPV)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> RuhiAnandFinn: postdoctoral research in RECITALS project https://recitals-project.eu/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: MyTerms launch
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: IEEE 7012-2025 standard for machine-readable privacy terms ; launching on 28th January F2F in London and as a webinar (https://mytermswebinar.eventbrite.com for online attendance; https://mytermslondon.eventbrite.com for in-person in London, UK)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: event is free; it mentions DPV for implementation
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ website: https://myterms.info/ 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: MyTerms is about privacy policies (terms/contracts) being standardised and written from the perspective of the individual. Two types of agreements: one is about the relationship e.g. consumer and the other is about donating data e.g. altruism. DPV is used for definitions and expressing requirements in machine-readable form.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: the standard's implementation will be done by MyTerms Alliance which will have Customers Commons and MyData; there will be a seminar in Brussels at the end of February
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JanLindquist: What's the relation between MyTerms and 27560 consent records?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: Some of the information is common; though MyTerms is about contracts rather than consent but the privacy implications are relevant; 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JanLindquist: Is 7012 freely available?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> IainHenderson: Not yet, but we are trying to have it, or to put the key implementation details via MyTerms
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JanLindquist: co-editor of 27560 (with Harsh) which is now about all legal bases rather than just consent so it could be helpful to consider. And 27560 is freely available.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: CEN wallets & access control
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JanLindquist: working with CEN and EUDI wallet (CEN TS-18297)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussion on wallets and DPV
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on JAN-28 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET