16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, TyttiRintamaki, IainHenderson, DelaramGolpayegani, JulioHernandez, PaulRyan, JulianFlake
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: BeatrizEsteves, GeorgKrog
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 03 JUL 2025
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250703T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250703T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-07-03
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.2 release
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: delay in creating the draft due to starting new job, expected to have it ready next week
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Volunteers needed to help reviewing each document/output
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ P7012 - Iain
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ AI, AI Act extension - Delaram
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ GDPR - Tytti
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ DPV tech/org - Julio
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ DPV document - Paul
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Risk – ??? - Harsh, Georg
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Art – new legal extensions
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ new Rules - Julian, Beatriz, Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Secondary Uses - Beatriz, Georg, Paul
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ w3id – Beatriz and Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: v2.3 topics
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ topics of priority 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ ODRL
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ EHDS – taxonomy
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ AI Act – taxonomy
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Guides
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Examples and Use-Cases
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ AI training, GPAI uses, Agents
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Updates
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: TAIR
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Julio has submitted concepts, Harsh to review
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPIA
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ TyttiRintamaki: also looking into DPIA not required activities published by DPAs
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ TyttiRintamaki: also should do the same for AI Act and prohibited systems
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Admin
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ meeting slot changes - poll with options from group
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Zoom link will change soon
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ P7012 – any changes needed for supporting its adoption and usage
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on JUL-10 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda will be reviewing DPV v2.2 draft release, and starting work on v2.3
