16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <HarshPandit> Scribe: HarshPandit
16:15:47 <HarshPandit> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:55 <HarshPandit> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <HarshPandit> Chair: HarshPandit
16:16:51 <HarshPandit> Present: HarshPandit, BeatrizEsteves, RuhiAnandFinn, DelaramGolpayegani, GeorgKrog, JulianFlake, StratisKoulierakis, MarlinUdoKisia, ArthitSuriyawongkul, FabianLinde, TyttiRintamaki, ElenaMolino, AjayJadhav, JulioHernandez
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Regrets: GabrielaKurteva
16:17:14 <HarshPandit> Date: 04 FEB 2026
16:17:28 <HarshPandit> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260204T133000/
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ce42ad87-3040-4f82-a341-7cb7c699a1a4/20260204T133000/ 
16:17:37 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Persistent ID for current minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-02-04
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Previous minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2026-01-28
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> FabianLinde: doing a PhD at UPM (Madrid), part of the HARNESS project, visiting researcher at TCD with Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Admins
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: Submit to LOV
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/353 -> Issue 353 v2.2 LOV submission (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Spreadsheet to be generated for this release (de-gdng and ieee-7012 are new extensions)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: DPV v2.3 release schedule
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: delay in schedule, we are still finalising the concepts and content for EHDS, AI Act, and standards; also the reviews are yet to be made for GDPR, 7012 -- so we will plan to wrap these up today and this week, and have the draft be ready next week
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: v2.3 milestone on github has list of tasks https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/9
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: also created milestone for v2.4 https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/10 with tasks for the next release; we will have a big push on documentation and also a large number of concepts being prepared for the regulations. Tentative draft ready in June, and release in July.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: EU EHDS
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/238 -> Issue 238 Update EHDS extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/299 -> Issue 299 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for EHDS (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: for concepts, keep DataHolder in SECTOR-HEALTH, and then in EHDS keep HealthDataHolder as it appears in the law
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: agree for GDNG; also for GDNG we have German and English terms, labels and definitions so this is also helpful and is incorporated in to the PR 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: still making changes on the proposed concepts, aiming to finish today or tomorrow
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Meeting on this FRI 16:00 CET 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: DE-GDNG
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/387 -> Issue 387 Extension for the German GDNG (by chhdraeger)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: ready to be integrated; Christian has also joined the group as a member of the DPVCG which takes care of the contribution issues; they have additional concepts from other members â€“ is it necessary for them to be members?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: no, but if they want regular contribution and participation then its sensible to have them join the group
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ Julian will confirm with Christian and colleagues, and will update the PR for adding this to 2.3
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: add Secondary Use to SECTOR-HEALTH by extending the DPV concept
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: IEEE 7012 / MyTerms
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/413 -> Issue 413 Ensure P7012 concepts extend core DPV concepts (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/423 -> Issue 423 Change `P7012` to `IEEE 7012` (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Changed the name, title, label, concepts from "P7012" to "7012" which is the correct terminology for published IEEE standards. Also had to change the namespace and iri, which is now `standards/ieee/7012`.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: do we also put the ODRL agreements here, will need changes
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: yes
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: also include GDPR agreements?
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: no
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ to be discussed by Beatriz and Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add ODRL agreements for 7012 - Beatriz and Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Make w3id changes for 7012 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AI
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/390 -> Issue 390 Adding the taxonomy of AI capablities from EIT report (by DelaramGlp)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/385 -> Issue 385 Align DPV with CRDM AI concepts (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Added concepts from the CRDM AI Taxonomy by Publications Office of EU. For the EIT concepts, they are still pending as they do not have definitions. To be reviewed by Delaram.
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197 -> Issue 197 Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent` (by ghurlbot)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Added Agent and Legal Agent concepts.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Review AI concepts - Delaram
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AI Act 
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/300 -> Issue 300 Model Intended Purpose Compatibility statuses for AI Act (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/294 -> Issue 294 AI Model Development Phases (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: GDPR
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/386 -> Issue 386 Model Proportionality for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/298 -> Issue 298 Model Purpose Compatibility statuses for GDPR (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: review EU-GDPR updates with Stratis, Georg (and Ruhi (new))
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> StratisKoulierakis: will review by Friday morning
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Review GDPR concepts - Stratis, Georg, Ruhi
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: additional item proposed - Guidance on implementation of CARPA GDPR certification as a demonstration of DPV's utility (Stratis, Harsh) for v2.4
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Usability
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/395 -> Issue 395 Revise DPV main spec page for ease of access (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: simplified view https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.3-dev/dpv/ ; issues with redirecting hashtag identifiers / fragments to module so have provided an index of concepts
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: could be we make module-wise lists and only expand those as needed for the concept needed
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we can have collapsible summary elements but would need extensive testing to make sure it works elsewhere
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Explore how to reduce the size of the DPV spec vocabulary index
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Misc. fixes
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/420 -> Issue 420 [FIX]: DPV logo broken in 404 page (by bact)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/411 -> Issue 411 Add contributor acknowledgements (by besteves4)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/405 -> Issue 405 [FIX]: Font size in index and 404 pages is probably too small (by bact)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: to be reviewed by Art
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Location
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/341 -> Issue 341 Add Location concepts to PD extension e.g. Home, Work (by coolharsh55)
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/342 -> Issue 342 Add Location concepts to TECH extension e.g. Device, App (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: these will be added to PD and TECH, to be reviewed by Julian
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add Location concepts to PD and TECH with guidance
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Review Location concepts - Julian
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Purposes
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/287 -> Issue 287 [NEW]: Add Maintenance as a `dpv:Purpose` (by besteves4)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: add concepts, to be reviewed by Beatriz 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Add Purpose concepts - Harsh
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Review Purpose concepts - Beatriz
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Standards
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/26 -> Issue 26 DPV-ISO providing concepts from ISO terminology and standards (by coolharsh55)
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ discussion on the need for explaining how ISO concepts align with DPV concepts, and approaches being to create extensions so ISO concepts also available in machine-readable format, and to then provide a machine-readable mapping, and a HTML guide for humans; Issues identified regarding copyright, extent of work and coverage, and necessity.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Propose we add core concepts from 29100 to explain foundational ISO concepts like PII and that these are covered in DPV.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: can we also add 27000 concepts which are key for security
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: we can also not provide the extension as the mapping
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> DelaramGolpayegani: +1 for mapping
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> BeatrizEsteves: +1 for mapping
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: +1 for mapping
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> JulianFlake: +1 for mapping
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ agreed to create the mapping in a machine-readable manner with HTML guide, but to not have the extension
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: Create the ISO mapping and the HTML documentation
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: AOB
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: ETSI AI standards
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: two ETSI standards for cybersecurity for cyber resilience act and second is responding to the request for implementing the AI Act in relation to AI operation. They are a bit away from data/privacy and more on cybersecurity/software engineering. May need to see if they are relevant to DPV scope.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: Securing Artificial Intelligence (SAI); Baseline Cyber Security Requirements for AI Models and Systems Cyber Security Requirements for AI  https://portal.etsi.org/webapp/WorkProgram/Report_WorkItem.asp?WKI_ID=74952
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ArthitSuriyawongkul: Methods for Testing & Specification (MTS); Continuous Auditing Based Conformity Assessment for AI-enabled systems Continuous Audit Conformity Assessment for AI  https://portal.etsi.org/webapp/workProgram/Report_WorkItem.asp?wki_id=68039
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: To check with folks like Delaram who have worked on AI (Act) standards before would be good to check for scope
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Subtopic: India's DPDP
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ India's DPDP is the privacy law 
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> AjayJadhav: part of the CREDEBL project (https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/projects/credebl) in Linux foundation decentralized Trust. We are interested in understanding how DPV can be extended for India's DPDP
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> HarshPandit: Excellent, as we had discussed DPDP before, and Georg/Signatu also had work on this. We have the IN extension for India, so within that namespace we'd have to create an extension for DPDP similar to how EU-GDPR has an extension. Then we model the concepts within that -- we use spreadsheets for this. Best to follow up via email on this.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> GeorgKrog: We have worked on this as well. Better to combine efforts to avoid duplication/repetition.
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> ACTION: For DPDP, Ajay to email Harsh to follow up the conversation; and then Harsh will loop Georg in for avoiding duplicate work
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <HarshPandit> \ The next meeting will be on FEB-11 Wednesday 13:30WET/14:30CET